<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>To My Wife</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="impressions-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Impressions</h2>
			<br/>
			<article id="impressions-2-1-le-jardin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Le Jardin</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The lily’s withered chalice falls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Around its rod of dusty gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And from the beech-trees on the wold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The last wood-pigeon coos and calls.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The gaudy leonine sunflower</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hangs black and barren on its stalk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And down the windy garden walk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dead leaves scatter⁠—hour by hour.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pale privet-petals white as milk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are blown into a snowy mass:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The roses lie upon the grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like little shreds of crimson silk.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="impressions-2-2-la-mer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">La Mer</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>A white mist drifts across the shrouds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A wild moon in this wintry sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gleams like an angry lion’s eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of a mane of tawny clouds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The muffled steersman at the wheel</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is but a shadow in the gloom;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in the throbbing engine-room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leap the long rods of polished steel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The shattered storm has left its trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon this huge and heaving dome,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the thin threads of yellow foam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Float on the waves like ravelled lace.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<article id="under-the-balcony" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Under the Balcony</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O beautiful star with the crimson mouth!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O moon with the brows of gold!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rise up, rise up, from the odorous south!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And light for my love her way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Lest her little feet should stray</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the windy hill and the wold!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O beautiful star with the crimson mouth!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O moon with the brows of gold!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O ship that shakes on the desolate sea!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O ship with the wet, white sail!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Put in, put in, to the port to me!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For my love and I would go</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To the land where the daffodils blow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the heart of a violet dale!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O ship that shakes on the desolate sea!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O ship with the wet, white sail!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O rapturous bird with the low, sweet note!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O bird that sits on the spray!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sing on, sing on, from your soft brown throat!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And my love in her little bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Will listen, and lift her head</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the pillow, and come my way!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O rapturous bird with the low, sweet note!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O bird that sits on the spray!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O blossom that hangs in the tremulous air!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O blossom with lips of snow!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come down, come down, for my love to wear!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You will die on her head in a crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You will die in a fold of her gown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To her little light heart you will go!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O blossom that hangs in the tremulous air!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O blossom with lips of snow!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-fragment" epub:type="z3998:fiction">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Fragment</h2>
			<p epub:type="introduction">It is not generally known that the poem composed for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Oscar Wilde for the Shakespearean Show Book was originally conceived as an address to Miss Terry on her departure from America. For reasons which we are not at liberty to divulge, it was deemed wiser to reconstruct it and give it in the form of a serenade to an indefinite object of worship. We have, however, been enabled to rescue two of the original stanzas, which will be read with much interest. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Wilde’s apostrophe to the “ship that shakes on the desolate sea” has been much criticised; but a little reflection will show us that the expression is eminently appropriate, referring, as it does, to the vibratory and very unpleasant motion of a screw steamship. The rescued stanzas run as follows:</p>
			<section id="a-fragment-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Beautiful star with the crimson lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And flagrant daffodil hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come back, come back, in the shaking ships</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">O’er the much-overrated sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To the hearts that are sick for thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a woe worse than mal de mer⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O beautiful star with the crimson lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the flagrant daffodil hair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O ship that shakes on the desolate sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Neath the flag of the wan White Star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou bringest a brighter star with thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">From the land of the Philistine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where Niagara’s reckoned fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Tupper is popular⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O ship that shakes on the desolate sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Neath the flag of the wan White Star.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>From <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">The Pall Mall Gazette</i>, 1884.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="the-harlots-house" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Harlot’s House</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We caught the tread of dancing feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We loitered down the moonlit street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stopped beneath the harlot’s house.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Inside, above the din and fray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We heard the loud musicians play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The “<i xml:lang="de">Treues Liebes Herz</i>” of Strauss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like strange mechanical grotesques,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Making fantastic arabesques,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shadows raced across the blind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We watched the ghostly dancers spin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sound of horn and violin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like black leaves wheeling in the wind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like wire-pulled automatons,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Slim silhouetted skeletons</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Went sidling through the slow quadrille,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then took each other by the hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And danced a stately saraband;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their laughter echoed thin and shrill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sometimes a clockwork puppet pressed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A phantom lover to her breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sometimes they seemed to try to sing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sometimes a horrible marionette</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Came out, and smoked its cigarette</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the steps like a live thing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, turning to my love, I said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The dead are dancing with the dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dust is whirling with the dust.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But she⁠—she heard the violin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And left my side, and entered in:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love passed into the house of lust.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then suddenly the tune went false,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dancers wearied of the waltz,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shadows ceased to wheel and whirl.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And down the long and silent street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dawn, with silver-sandalled feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crept like a frightened girl.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="le-jardin-des-tuileries" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Le Jardin des Tuileries</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This winter air is keen and cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And keen and cold this winter sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But round my chair the children run</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like little things of dancing gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sometimes about the painted kiosk</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The mimic soldiers strut and stride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sometimes the blue-eyed brigands hide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the bleak tangles of the bosk.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And sometimes, while the old nurse cons</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her book, they steal across the square,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And launch their paper navies where</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Huge Triton writhes in greenish bronze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now in mimic flight they flee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And now they rush, a boisterous band⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And, tiny hand on tiny hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Climb up the black and leafless tree.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! cruel tree! if I were you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And children climbed me, for their sake</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though it be winter I would break</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into spring blossoms white and blue!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-the-sale-by-auction-of-keats-love-letters" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On the Sale by Auction of Keats’ Love Letters</h2>
			<p>
				<span>These are the letters which Endymion wrote</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To one he loved in secret, and apart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And now the brawlers of the auction mart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bargain and bid for each poor blotted note,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ay! for each separate pulse of passion quote</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The merchant’s price. I think they love not art</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who break the crystal of a poet’s heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That small and sickly eyes may glare and gloat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Is it not said that many years ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In a far Eastern town, some soldiers ran</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With torches through the midnight, and began</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To wrangle for mean raiment, and to throw</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dice for the garments of a wretched man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not knowing the God’s wonder, or His woe?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-new-remorse" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The New Remorse</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The sin was mine; I did not understand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So now is music prisoned in her cave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Save where some ebbing desultory wave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Frets with its restless whirls this meagre strand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the withered hollow of this land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath Summer dug herself so deep a grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That hardly can the leaden willow crave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One silver blossom from keen Winter’s hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But who is this who cometh by the shore?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(Nay, love, look up and wonder!) Who is this</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who cometh in dyed garments from the South?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is thy new-found Lord, and he shall kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The yet unravished roses of thy mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I shall weep and worship, as before.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<section id="fantaisies-décoratives" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Fantaisies Décoratives</h2>
			<article id="fantaisies-décoratives-1-le-panneau" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Le Panneau</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Under the rose-tree’s dancing shade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There stands a little ivory girl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pulling the leaves of pink and pearl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pale green nails of polished jade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The red leaves fall upon the mould,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The white leaves flutter, one by one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Down to a blue bowl where the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a great dragon, writhes in gold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The white leaves float upon the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The red leaves flutter idly down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some fall upon her yellow gown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some upon her raven hair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She takes an amber lute and sings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And as she sings a silver crane</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Begins his scarlet neck to strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flap his burnished metal wings.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She takes a lute of amber bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And from the thicket where he lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her lover, with his almond eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watches her movements in delight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And now she gives a cry of fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And tiny tears begin to start:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A thorn has wounded with its dart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pink-veined sea-shell of her ear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And now she laughs a merry note:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There has fallen a petal of the rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Just where the yellow satin shows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blue-veined flower of her throat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With pale green nails of polished jade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pulling the leaves of pink and pearl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There stands a little ivory girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the rose-tree’s dancing shade.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fantaisies-décoratives-2-les-ballons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Les Ballons</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Against these turbid turquoise skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The light and luminous balloons</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dip and drift like satin moons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drift like silken butterflies;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Reel with every windy gust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rise and reel like dancing girls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Float like strange transparent pearls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fall and float like silver dust.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now to the low leaves they cling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each with coy fantastic pose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each a petal of a rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straining at a gossamer string.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then to the tall trees they climb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like thin globes of amethyst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wandering opals keeping tryst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the rubies of the lime.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<article id="canzonet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Canzonet</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">I have no store</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of gryphon-guarded gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Now, as before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bare is the shepherd’s fold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rubies nor pearls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have I to gem thy throat;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet woodland girls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have loved the shepherd’s note.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Then, pluck a reed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bid me sing to thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For I would feed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thine ears with melody,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who art more fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than fairest fleur-de-lys,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">More sweet and rare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than sweetest ambergris.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">What dost thou fear?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Young Hyacinth is slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pan is not here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And will not come again.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No hornèd Faun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Treads down the yellow leas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No God at dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Steals through the olive trees.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Hylas is dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor will he e’er divine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Those little red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rose-petalled lips of thine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the high hill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No ivory dryads play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Silver and still</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sinks the sad autumn day.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="symphony-in-yellow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Symphony in Yellow</h2>
			<p>
				<span>An omnibus across the bridge</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crawls like a yellow butterfly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And, here and there, a passer-by</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shows like a little restless midge.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Big barges full of yellow hay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are moored against the shadowy wharf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And, like a yellow silken scarf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thick fog hangs along the quay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The yellow leaves begin to fade</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And flutter from the Temple elms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And at my feet the pale green Thames</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lies like a rod of rippled jade.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="in-the-forest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">In the Forest</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Out of the mid-wood’s twilight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into the meadow’s dawn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ivory limbed and brown-eyed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flashes my Faun!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He skips through the copses singing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his shadow dances along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I know not which I should follow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shadow or song!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Hunter, snare me his shadow!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O Nightingale, catch me his strain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Else moonstruck with music and madness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I track him in vain!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-my-wife-with-a-copy-of-my-poems" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">To My Wife</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">With a Copy of My Poems</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>I can write no stately proem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As a prelude to my lay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From a poet to a poem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I would dare to say.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For if of these fallen petals</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One to you seem fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love will waft it till it settles</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On your hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when wind and winter harden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the loveless land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It will whisper of the garden,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You will understand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="with-a-copy-of-a-house-of-pomegranates" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">With a Copy of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">A House of Pomegranates</i></h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Go, little book,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To him who, on a lute with horns of pearl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sang of the white feet of the Golden Girl:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bid him look</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into thy pages: it may hap that he</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May find that golden maidens dance through thee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="roses-and-rue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Roses and Rue</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">To L. L.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Could we dig up this long-buried treasure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were it worth the pleasure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We never could learn love’s song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We are parted too long.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Could the passionate past that is fled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Call back its dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could we live it all over again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were it worth the pain!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I remember we used to meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By an ivied seat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you warbled each pretty word</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the air of a bird;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And your voice had a quaver in it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Just like a linnet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shook, as the blackbird’s throat</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With its last big note;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And your eyes, they were green and grey</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like an April day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But lit into amethyst</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When I stooped and kissed;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And your mouth, it would never smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For a long, long while,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then it rippled all over with laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Five minutes after.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You were always afraid of a shower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Just like a flower:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I remember you started and ran</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the rain began.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I remember I never could catch you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For no one could match you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You had wonderful, luminous, fleet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Little wings to your feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I remember your hair⁠—did I tie it?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For it always ran riot⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a tangled sunbeam of gold:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">These things are old.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I remember so well the room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the lilac bloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That beat at the dripping pane</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the warm June rain;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the colour of your gown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It was amber-brown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And two yellow satin bows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From your shoulders rose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the handkerchief of French lace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which you held to your face⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had a small tear left a stain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or was it the rain?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On your hand as it waved adieu</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There were veins of blue;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In your voice as it said good-bye</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was a petulant cry,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“You have only wasted your life.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Ah, that was the knife!)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I rushed through the garden gate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It was all too late.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Could we live it over again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were it worth the pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could the passionate past that is fled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Call back its dead!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Well, if my heart must break,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dear love, for your sake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It will break in music, I know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Poets’ hearts break so.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But strange that I was not told</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That the brain can hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a tiny ivory cell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God’s heaven and hell.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="désespoir" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Désespoir</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The seasons send their ruin as they go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For in the spring the narciss shows its head</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor withers till the rose has flamed to red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the autumn purple violets blow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the slim crocus stirs the winter snow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wherefore yon leafless trees will bloom again</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And this grey land grow green with summer rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And send up cowslips for some boy to mow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But what of life whose bitter hungry sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flows at our heels, and gloom of sunless night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Covers the days which never more return?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ambition, love and all the thoughts that burn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We lose too soon, and only find delight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In withered husks of some dead memory.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Pan</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Double Villanelle</p>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="pan-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O goat-foot God of Arcady!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This modern world is grey and old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what remains to us of thee?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more the shepherd lads in glee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Throw apples at thy wattled fold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O goat-foot God of Arcady!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor through the laurels can one see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy soft brown limbs, thy beard of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what remains to us of thee?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And dull and dead our Thames would be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For here the winds are chill and cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O goat-foot God of Arcady!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then keep the tomb of Helicé,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thine olive-woods, thy vine-clad wold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what remains to us of thee?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Though many an unsung elegy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sleeps in the reeds our rivers hold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O goat-foot God of Arcady!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, what remains to us of thee?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="pan-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, leave the hills of Arcady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy satyrs and their wanton play,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This modern world hath need of thee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No nymph or Faun indeed have we,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For Faun and nymph are old and grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, leave the hills of Arcady!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This is the land where liberty</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lit grave-browed Milton on his way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This modern world hath need of thee!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A land of ancient chivalry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where gentle Sidney saw the day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, leave the hills of Arcady!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This fierce sea-lion of the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This England lacks some stronger lay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This modern world hath need of thee!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then blow some trumpet loud and free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And give thine oaten pipe away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, leave the hills of Arcady!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This modern world hath need of thee!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
