<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chorus of Cloud Maidens</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="chorus-of-cloud-maidens" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Chorus of Cloud Maidens</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">’Αριστοφανους Νεφέλαι, 275⁠–⁠290, 298⁠–⁠313.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="chorus-of-cloud-maidens-στροφη">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Στροφη</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cloud maidens that float on for ever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dew-sprinkled, fleet bodies, and fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let us rise from our Sire’s loud river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Great Ocean, and soar through the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the peaks of the pine-covered mountains where the pines hang as tresses of hair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let us seek the watch-towers undaunted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where the well-watered corn-fields abound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And through murmurs of rivers nymph-haunted</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The songs of the sea-waves resound;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sun in the sky never wearies of spreading his radiance around.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Let us cast off the haze</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of the mists from our band,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Till with far-seeing gaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">We may look on the land.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chorus-of-cloud-maidens-αντιστροφη">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Αντιστροφη</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cloud maidens that bring the rain-shower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the Pallas-loved land let us wing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the land of stout heroes and Power,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where Kekrops was hero and king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where honour and silence is given</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the mysteries that none may declare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where are gifts to the high gods in heaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When the house of the gods is laid bare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where are lofty roofed temples, and statues well carven and fair;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where are feasts to the happy immortals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the sacred procession draws near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where garlands make bright the bright portals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At all seasons and months in the year;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And when spring days are here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then we tread to the wine-god a measure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Bacchanal dance and in pleasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Mid the contests of sweet singing choirs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the crash of loud lyres.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="from-spring-days-to-winter-for-music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">From Spring Days to Winter</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">(For Music)</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>In the glad springtime when leaves were green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O merrily the throstle sings!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I sought, amid the tangled sheen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love whom mine eyes had never seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O the glad dove has golden wings!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Between the blossoms red and white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O merrily the throstle sings!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My love first came into my sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O perfect vision of delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O the glad dove has golden wings!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The yellow apples glowed like fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O merrily the throstle sings!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Love too great for lip or lyre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blown rose of love and of desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O the glad dove has golden wings!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now with snow the tree is grey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah, sadly now the throstle sings!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My love is dead: ah! well-a-day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See at her silent feet I lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A dove with broken wings!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah, Love! ah, Love! that thou wert slain⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fond Dove, fond Dove return again!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="tristitae" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Lament</h2>
				<p epub:type="epigraph">
					<i xml:lang="grc">Αἴλινον, αἴλινον εἰπέ, τὸ δ’ εὖ νικάτω</i>
				</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>O well for him who lives at ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With garnered gold in wide domain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor heeds the splashing of the rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The crashing down of forest trees.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O well for him who ne’er hath known</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The travail of the hungry years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A father grey with grief and tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A mother weeping all alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But well for him whose foot hath trod</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The weary road of toil and strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet from the sorrows of his life.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Builds ladders to be nearer God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-true-knowledge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The True Knowledge</h2>
			<p>
				<span>… <i>ἀναγκαίως δ’ ἔχει</i></span>
				<br/>
				<span><i>Βίον θερίζειν ὥστε κάρπιμον στάχυν</i>,</span>
				<br/>
				<span><i>καὶ τὸν μὲν εἶναι τὸν δὲ μή</i>.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou knowest all⁠—I seek in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What lands to till or sow with seed⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The land is black with briar and weed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor cares for falling tears or rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou knowest all⁠—I sit and wait</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With blinded eyes and hands that fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till the last lifting of the veil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the first opening of the gate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou knowest all; I cannot see.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I trust I shall not live in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I know that we shall meet again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In some divine eternity.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="θρηνωιδια" epub:type="z3998:fiction">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="grc">Θρηνωιδια</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">(Eur. <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Hec</i>., 444⁠–⁠483)</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p epub:type="introduction">Song sung by captive women of Troy on the sea beach at Aulis, while the Achaeans were there storm-bound through the wrath of dishonoured Achilles, and waiting for a fair wind to bring them home.</p>
			<section id="θρηνωιδια-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<section id="θρηνωιδια-στροφη">
					<h3 epub:type="title">Στροφη</h3>
					<p>
						<span>O fair wind blowing from the sea!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who through the dark and mist dost guide</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The ships that on the billows ride,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Unto what land, ah, misery!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall I be borne, across what stormy wave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or to whose house a purchased slave?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O sea-wind blowing fair and fast</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Is it unto the Dorian strand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Or to those far and fable shores,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Where great Apidanus outpours</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His streams upon the fertile land,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or shall I tread the Phthian sand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Borne by the swift breath of the blast?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="θρηνωιδια-αντιστροφη">
					<h3 epub:type="title">Αντιστροφη</h3>
					<p>
						<span>O blowing wind! you bring my sorrow near,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For surely borne with splashing of the oar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hidden in some galley-prison drear</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I shall be led unto that distant shore</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Where the tall palm-tree first took root, and made,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With clustering laurel leaves, a pleasant shade</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For Leto when with travail great she bore</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A god and goddess in Love’s bitter fight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her body’s anguish, and her soul’s delight.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i3">It may be in Delos,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Encircled of seas,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">I shall sing with some maids</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">From the Cyclades,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Of Artemis goddess</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And queen and maiden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Sing of the gold</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In her hair heavy-laden.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Sing of her hunting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Her arrows and bow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">And in singing find solace</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">From weeping and woe.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="θρηνωιδια-στροφη-β">
					<h3 epub:type="title">Στροφη Β</h3>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">Or it may be my bitter doom</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To stand a handmaid at the loom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In distant Athens of supreme renown;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And weave some wondrous tapestry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Or work in bright embroidery,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon the crocus-flowered robe and saffron-coloured gown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The flying horses wrought in gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The silver chariot onward rolled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That bears Athena through the Town;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or the warring giants that strove to climb</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From earth to heaven to reign as kings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And Zeus the conquering son of Time</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Borne on the hurricane’s eagle wings;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the lightning flame and the bolts that fell</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">From the risen cloud at the god’s behest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hurled the rebels to darkness of hell,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To a sleep without slumber or waking or rest.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="θρηνωιδια-αντιστροφη-β">
					<h3 epub:type="title">Αντιστροφη Β</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Alas! our children’s sorrow, and their pain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">In slavery.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alas! our warrior sires nobly slain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">For liberty.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alas! our country’s glory, and the name</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">Of Troy’s fair town;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the lances and the fighting and the flame</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">Tall Troy is down.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I shall pass with my soul over-laden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To a land far away and unseen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Asia is slave and handmaiden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Europa is Mistress and Queen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Without love, or love’s holiest treasure,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I shall pass into Hades abhorred,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the grave as my chamber of pleasure,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To death as my Lover and Lord.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="lotus-leaves" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lotus Leaves</h2>
			<section id="lotus-leaves-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There is no peace beneath the noon⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ah! in those meadows is there peace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where, girdled with a silver fleece,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a bright shepherd, strays the moon?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Queen of the gardens of the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where stars like lilies, white and fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shine through the mists of frosty air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, tarry, for the dawn is nigh!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, tarry, for the envious day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stretches long hands to catch thy feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alas! but thou art overfleet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! I know thou wilt not stay.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="lotus-leaves-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Eastward the dawn has broken red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The circling mists and shadows flee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Aurora rises from the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leaves the crocus-flowered bed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Eastward the silver arrows fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Splintering the veil of holy night:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a long wave of yellow light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breaks silently on tower and hall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And speeding wide across the wold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wakes into flight some fluttering bird;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all the chestnut tops are stirred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the branches streaked with gold.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="lotus-leaves-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To outer senses there is peace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A dream-like peace on either hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Deep silence in the shadowy land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep silence where the shadows cease,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Save for a cry that echoes shrill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From some lone bird disconsolate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A curlew calling to its mate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The answer from the distant hill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And, herald of my love to Him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who, waiting for the dawn, doth lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The orbèd maiden leaves the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the white firs grow more dim.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="lotus-leaves-4">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Up sprang the sun to run his race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The breeze blew fair on meadow and lea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But in the west I seemed to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The likeness of a human face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A linnet on the hawthorn spray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sang of the glories of the spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And made the flow’ring copses ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gladness for the new-born day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A lark from out the grass I trod</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flew wildly, and was lost to view</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the great seamless veil of blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hangs before the face of God.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The willow whispered overhead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That death is but a newer life</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And that with idle words of strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We bring dishonour on the dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I took a branch from off the tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hawthorn branches drenched with dew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I bound them with a sprig of yew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made a garland fair to see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I laid the flowers where He lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Warm leaves and flowers on the stones):</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What joy I had to sit alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till evening broke on tired eyes:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Till all the shifting clouds had spun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A robe of gold for God to wear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And into seas of purple air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank the bright galley of the sun.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="lotus-leaves-5">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Shall I be gladdened for the day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And let my inner heart be stirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By murmuring tree or song of bird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sorrow at the wild winds’ play?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not so, such idle dreams belong</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To souls of lesser depth than mine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I feel that I am half divine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know that I am great and strong.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know that every forest tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By labour rises from the root;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I know that none shall gather fruit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By sailing on the barren sea.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="wasted-days" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Wasted Days</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">From a Picture Painted by Miss <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">V. T.</abbr></p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>A fair slim boy not made for this world’s pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With hair of gold thick clustering round his ears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And longing eyes half veiled by foolish tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like bluest water seen through mists of rain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pale cheeks whereon no kiss hath left its stain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Red under-lip drawn in for fear of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And white throat whiter than the breast of dove⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alas! Alas! If all should be in vain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Corn-fields behind, and reapers all a-row</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In weariest labour toiling wearily,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To no sweet sound of laughter or of lute.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And careless of the crimson sunset-glow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The boy still dreams; nor knows that night is night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the night-time no man gathers fruit.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-fragment-from-the-agamemnon-of-aeschylos" epub:type="z3998:drama">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Fragment from the Agamemnon of Aeschylos</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Lines 1140⁠–⁠1173</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The scene is the court-yard of the Palace at Argos. Agamemnon has already entered the House of Doom, and Clytemnestra has followed close on his heels. Cassandra is left alone upon the stage. The conscious terror of death and the burden of prophecy lie heavy upon her; terrible signs and visions greet her approach. She sees blood upon the lintel, and the smell of blood scares her, as some bird, from the door. The ghosts of the murdered children come to mourn with her. Her second sight pierces the Palace walls; she sees the fatal bath, the trammelling net, and the axe sharpened for her own ruin and her lord’s.</p>
			<p>But not even in the hour of her last anguish is Apollo merciful; her warnings are unheeded, her prophetic utterances made mock of.</p>
			<p>The orchestra is filled with a chorus of old men weak, foolish, irresolute. They do not believe the weird woman of mystery till the hour for help is past, and the cry of Agamemnon echoes from the house, “Oh me! I am stricken with a stroke of death.”</p>
			<table epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Chorus</td>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>Thy prophecies are but a lying tale,</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">For cruel gods have brought thee to this state,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>And of thyself and thine own wretched fate</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Sing you this song and these unhallowed lays,</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Like the brown bird of grief insatiate</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Crying for sorrow of its dreary days;</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">Crying for Itys, Itys, in the vale⁠—</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">The nightingale! The nightingale!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cassandra</td>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>Yet I would that to me they had given</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">The fate of that singer so clear,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Fleet wings to fly up unto heaven,</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Away from all mourning and fear;</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">For ruin and slaughter await me-⁠—the cleaving with sword and the spear.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Chorus</td>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>Whence come these crowding fancies on thy brain,</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Sent by some god it may be, yet for naught?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Why dost thou sing with evil-tongued refrain,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Moulding thy terrors to this hideous strain</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">With shrill, sad cries, as if by death distraught?</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Why dost thou tread that path of prophecy,</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">Where, upon either hand,</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">Landmarks for ever stand</span>
								<br/>
								<span>With horrid legend for all men to see?</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cassandra</td>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>O bitter bridegroom who didst bear</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Ruin to those that loved thee true!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>O holy stream Scamander, where</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">With gentle nurturement I grew</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">In the first days, when life and love were new.</span>
							</p>
							<p>
								<span>And now⁠—and now⁠—it seems that I must lie</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">In the dark land that never sees the sun;</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Sing my sad songs of fruitless prophecy</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">By the black stream Cokytos that doth run</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Through long, low hills of dreary Acheron.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Chorus</td>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span class="i2">Ah, but thy word is clear!</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">Even a child among men,</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">Even a child might see</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">What is lying hidden here.</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">Ah! I am smitten deep</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">To the heart with a deadly blow</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">At the evil fate of the maid,</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">At the cry of her song of woe!</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">Sorrows for her to bear!</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i2">Wonders for me to hear!</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cassandra</td>
						<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>O my poor land laid waste with flame and fire!</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">O ruined city overthrown by fate!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Ah, what availed the offerings of my Sire</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">To keep the foreign foemen from the gate!</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Ah, what availed the herds of pasturing kine</span>
								<br/>
								<span>To save my country from the wrath divine!</span>
							</p>
							<p>
								<span>Ah, neither prayer nor priest availèd aught,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Nor the strong captains that so stoutly fought,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>For the tall town lies desolate and low.</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">And I, the singer of this song of woe,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Know, by the fire burning in my brain,</span>
								<br/>
								<span>That Death, the healer of all earthly pain,</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Is close at hand! I will not shirk the blow.</span>
							</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</article>
		<article id="the-theatre-at-argos" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Theatre at Argos</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Nettles and poppy mar each rock-hewn sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No poet crowned with olive deathlessly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Chants his glad song, nor clamorous Tragedy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Startles the air; green corn is waving sweet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where once the Chorus danced to measures fleet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far to the East a purple sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The cliffs of gold that prisoned Danae;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And desecrated Argos at my feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No season now to mourn the days of old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A nation’s shipwreck on the rocks of Time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Or the dread storms of all-devouring Fate.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For now the peoples clamor at our gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The world is full of plague and sin and crime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God Himself is half-dethroned for Gold!</span>
			</p>
			<footer>
				<p>Argos, 1877</p>
			</footer>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
