<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Flower of Love</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="hélas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hélas!</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To drift with every passion till my soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a stringed lute on which all winds can play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is it for this that I have given away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mine ancient wisdom, and austere control?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Methinks my life is a twice-written scroll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scrawled over on some boyish holiday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With idle songs for pipe and virelay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which do but mar the secret of the whole.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surely there was a time I might have trod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sunlit heights, and from life’s dissonance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Struck one clear chord to reach the ears of God:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is that time dead? lo! with a little rod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I did but touch the honey of romance⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And must I lose a soul’s inheritance?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<section id="eleutheria" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Eleutheria</h2>
			<article id="sonnet-to-liberty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Sonnet to Liberty</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Not that I love thy children, whose dull eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See nothing save their own unlovely woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose minds know nothing, nothing care to know⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that the roar of thy Democracies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy reigns of Terror, thy great Anarchies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mirror my wildest passions like the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give my rage a brother⁠—! Liberty!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this sake only do thy dissonant cries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Delight my discreet soul, else might all kings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By bloody knout or treacherous cannonades</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rob nations of their rights inviolate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I remain unmoved⁠—and yet, and yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These Christs that die upon the barricades,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God knows it I am with them, in some things.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ave-imperatrix" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ave Imperatrix</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Set in this stormy Northern sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Queen of these restless fields of tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>England! what shall men say of thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Before whose feet the worlds divide?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The earth, a brittle globe of glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lies in the hollow of thy hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through its heart of crystal pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like shadows through a twilight land,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The spears of crimson-suited war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The long white-crested waves of fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the deadly fires which are</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The torches of the lords of Night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The yellow leopards, strained and lean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The treacherous Russian knows so well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gaping blackened jaws are seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Leap through the hail of screaming shell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The strong sea-lion of England’s wars</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hath left his sapphire cave of sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To battle with the storm that mars</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The stars of England’s chivalry.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The brazen-throated clarion blows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Across the Pathan’s reedy fen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the high steeps of Indian snows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shake to the tread of armèd men.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And many an Afghan chief, who lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beneath his cool pomegranate-trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clutches his sword in fierce surmise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When on the mountain-side he sees</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The fleet-foot Marri scout, who comes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To tell how he hath heard afar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The measured roll of English drums</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beat at the gates of Kandahar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For southern wind and east wind meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where, girt and crowned by sword and fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>England with bare and bloody feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Climbs the steep road of wide empire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O lonely Himalayan height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grey pillar of the Indian sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where saw’st thou last in clanging flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our wingèd dogs of Victory?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The almond-groves of Samarcand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bokhara, where red lilies blow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Oxus, by whose yellow sand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The grave white-turbaned merchants go:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And on from thence to Ispahan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The gilded garden of the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whence the long dusty caravan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Brings cedar wood and vermilion;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And that dread city of Cabool</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Set at the mountain’s scarpèd feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose marble tanks are ever full</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With water for the noonday heat:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where through the narrow straight Bazaar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A little maid Circassian</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is led, a present from the Czar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unto some old and bearded khan⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Here have our wild war-eagles flown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And flapped wide wings in fiery fight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the sad dove, that sits alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In England⁠—she hath no delight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In vain the laughing girl will lean</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To greet her love with love-lit eyes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down in some treacherous black ravine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Clutching his flag, the dead boy lies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And many a moon and sun will see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The lingering wistful children wait</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To climb upon their father’s knee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in each house made desolate</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pale women who have lost their lord</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will kiss the relics of the slain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some tarnished epaulette⁠—some sword⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Poor toys to soothe such anguished pain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For not in quiet English fields</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are these, our brothers, lain to rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where we might deck their broken shields</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With all the flowers the dead love best.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For some are by the Delhi walls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And many in the Afghan land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many where the Ganges falls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through seven mouths of shifting sand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And some in Russian waters lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And others in the seas which are</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The portals to the East, or by</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wind-swept heights of Trafalgar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O wandering graves! O restless sleep!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O silence of the sunless day!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O still ravine! O stormy deep!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Give up your prey! Give up your prey!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And thou whose wounds are never healed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose weary race is never won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Cromwell’s England! must thou yield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For every inch of ground a son?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Go! crown with thorns thy gold-crowned head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Change thy glad song to song of pain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wind and wild wave have got thy dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And will not yield them back again.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wave and wild wind and foreign shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Possess the flower of English land⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lips that thy lips shall kiss no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hands that shall never clasp thy hand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What profit now that we have bound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The whole round world with nets of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If hidden in our heart is found</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The care that groweth never old?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What profit that our galleys ride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pine-forest-like, on every main?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ruin and wreck are at our side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grim warders of the House of pain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where are the brave, the strong, the fleet?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where is our English chivalry?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wild grasses are their burial-sheet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sobbing waves their threnody.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O loved ones lying far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What word of love can dead lips send!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O wasted dust! O senseless clay!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is this the end! is this the end!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Peace, peace! we wrong the noble dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To vex their solemn slumber so;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though childless, and with thorn-crowned head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up the steep road must England go,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet when this fiery web is spun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her watchmen shall descry from far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The young Republic like a sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rise from these crimson seas of war.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-milton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Milton</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Milton! I think thy spirit hath passed away</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From these white cliffs and high-embattled towers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This gorgeous fiery-coloured world of ours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seems fallen into ashes dull and grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the age changed unto a mimic play</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wherein we waste our else too-crowded hours:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For all our pomp and pageantry and powers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We are but fit to delve the common clay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing this little isle on which we stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This England, this sea-lion of the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By ignorant demagogues is held in fee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who love her not: Dear God! is this the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which bare a triple empire in her hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When Cromwell spake the word Democracy!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="louis-napoleon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Louis Napoleon</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Eagle of Austerlitz! where were thy wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">When far away upon a barbarous strand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In fight unequal, by an obscure hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell the last scion of thy brood of Kings!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Poor boy! thou shalt not flaunt thy cloak of red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Or ride in state through Paris in the van</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of thy returning legions, but instead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy mother France, free and republican,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Shall on thy dead and crownless forehead place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The better laurels of a soldier’s crown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That not dishonoured should thy soul go down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tell the mighty Sire of thy race</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That France hath kissed the mouth of Liberty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And found it sweeter than his honied bees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And that the giant wave Democracy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breaks on the shores where Kings lay couched at ease.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sonnet-on-the-massacre-of-the-christians-in-bulgaria" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Sonnet</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">On the Massacre of the Christians in Bulgaria</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Christ, dost thou live indeed? or are thy bones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still straitened in their rock-hewn sepulchre?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was thy Rising only dreamed by her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose love of thee for all her sin atones?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For here the air is horrid with men’s groans,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The priests who call upon thy name are slain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost thou not hear the bitter wail of pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From those whose children lie upon the stones?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come down, O Son of God! incestuous gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Curtains the land, and through the starless night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over thy Cross a Crescent moon I see!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Thou in very truth didst burst the tomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come down, O Son of Man! and show thy might</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest Mahomet be crowned instead of Thee!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="quantum-mutata" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Quantum Mutata</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There was a time in Europe long ago</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When no man died for freedom anywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But England’s lion leaping from its lair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laid hands on the oppressor! it was so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While England could a great Republic show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Witness the men of Piedmont, chiefest care</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Cromwell, when with impotent despair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Pontiff in his painted portico</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trembled before our stern ambassadors.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How comes it then that from such high estate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We have thus fallen, save that Luxury</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With barren merchandise piles up the gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where noble thoughts and deeds should enter by:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Else might we still be Milton’s heritors.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="libertatis-sacra-fames" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Libertatis Sacra Fames</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Albeit nurtured in democracy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And liking best that state republican</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where every man is Kinglike and no man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is crowned above his fellows, yet I see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spite of this modern fret for Liberty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Better the rule of One, whom all obey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than to let clamorous demagogues betray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our freedom with the kiss of anarchy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherefore I love them not whose hands profane</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Plant the red flag upon the piled-up street</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For no right cause, beneath whose ignorant reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arts, Culture, Reverence, Honour, all things fade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save Treason and the dagger of her trade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or Murder with his silent bloody feet.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="theoretikos" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Theoretikos</h3>
				<p>
					<span>This mighty empire hath but feet of clay:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of all its ancient chivalry and might</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our little island is forsaken quite:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some enemy hath stolen its crown of bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from its hills that voice hath passed away</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which spake of Freedom: O come out of it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Come out of it, my Soul, thou art not fit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this vile traffic-house, where day by day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wisdom and reverence are sold at mart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the rude people rage with ignorant cries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against an heritage of centuries.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It mars my calm: wherefore in dreams of Art</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And loftiest culture I would stand apart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Neither for God, nor for his enemies.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<article id="the-garden-of-eros" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Garden of Eros</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It is full summer now, the heart of June;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Not yet the sunburnt reapers are astir</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the upland meadow where too soon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rich autumn time, the season’s usurer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will lend his hoarded gold to all the trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And see his treasure scattered by the wild and spendthrift breeze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Too soon indeed! yet here the daffodil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That love-child of the Spring, has lingered on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To vex the rose with jealousy, and still</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The harebell spreads her azure pavilion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like a strayed and wandering reveller</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Abandoned of its brothers, whom long since June’s messenger</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The missel-thrush has frighted from the glade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One pale narcissus loiters fearfully</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Close to a shadowy nook, where half afraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of their own loveliness some violets lie</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That will not look the gold sun in the face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For fear of too much splendour⁠—ah! methinks it is a place</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Which should be trodden by Persephone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When wearied of the flowerless fields of Dis!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or danced on by the lads of Arcady!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The hidden secret of eternal bliss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Known to the Grecian here a man might find,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah! you and I may find it now if Love and Sleep be kind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There are the flowers which mourning Herakles</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strewed on the tomb of Hylas, columbine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its white doves all a-flutter where the breeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Kissed them too harshly, the small celandine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That yellow-kirtled chorister of eve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lilac lady’s-smock⁠—but let them bloom alone, and leave</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yon spirèd hollyhock red-crocketed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To sway its silent chimes, else must the bee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its little bellringer, go seek instead</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some other pleasaunce; the anemone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That weeps at daybreak, like a silly girl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before her love, and hardly lets the butterflies unfurl</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their painted wings beside it⁠—bid it pine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In pale virginity; the winter snow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will suit it better than those lips of thine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose fires would but scorch it, rather go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pluck that amorous flower which blooms alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fed by the pander wind with dust of kisses not its own.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The trumpet-mouths of red convolvulus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So dear to maidens, creamy meadow-sweet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whiter than Juno’s throat and odorous</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As all Arabia, hyacinths the feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Huntress Dian would be loth to mar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For any dappled fawn⁠—pluck these, and those fond flowers which are</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fairer than what Queen Venus trod upon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath the pines of Ida, eucharis,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That morning star which does not dread the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And budding marjoram which but to kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would sweeten Cytheræa’s lips and make</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adonis jealous⁠—these for thy head⁠—and for thy girdle take</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yon curving spray of purple clematis</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose gorgeous dye outflames the Tyrian King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And foxgloves with their nodding chalices,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But that one narciss which the startled Spring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let from her kirtle fall when first she heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In her own woods the wild tempestuous song of summer’s bird,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! leave it for a subtle memory</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of those sweet tremulous days of rain and sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When April laughed between her tears to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The early primrose with shy footsteps run</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the gnarled oak-tree roots till all the wold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spite of its brown and trampled leaves, grew bright with shimmering gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, pluck it too, it is not half so sweet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As thou thyself, my soul’s idolatry!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when thou art a-wearied at thy feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall oxlips weave their brightest tapestry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thee the woodbine shall forget its pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And veil its tangled whorls, and thou shalt walk on daisies pied.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I will cut a reed by yonder spring</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And make the wood-gods jealous, and old Pan</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wonder what young intruder dares to sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In these still haunts, where never foot of man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should tread at evening, lest he chance to spy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The marble limbs of Artemis and all her company.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I will tell thee why the jacinth wears</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Such dread embroidery of dolorous moan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And why the hapless nightingale forbears</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To sing her song at noon, but weeps alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the fleet swallow sleeps, and rich men feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And why the laurel trembles when she sees the lightening east.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I will sing how sad Proserpina</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unto a grave and gloomy Lord was wed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lure the silver-breasted Helena</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Back from the lotus meadows of the dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So shalt thou see that awful loveliness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For which two mighty Hosts met fearfully in war’s abyss!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And then I’ll pipe to thee that Grecian tale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How Cynthia loves the lad Endymion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hidden in a grey and misty veil</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hies to the cliffs of Latmos once the Sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leaps from his ocean bed in fruitless chase</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of those pale flying feet which fade away in his embrace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And if my flute can breathe sweet melody,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We may behold Her face who long ago</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dwelt among men by the Ægean sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And whose sad house with pillaged portico</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And friezeless wall and columns toppled down</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Looms o’er the ruins of that fair and violet-cinctured town.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Spirit of Beauty! tarry still awhile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They are not dead, thine ancient votaries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some few there are to whom thy radiant smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is better than a thousand victories,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though all the nobly slain of Waterloo</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rise up in wrath against them! tarry still, there are a few</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who for thy sake would give their manlihood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And consecrate their being; I at least</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have done so, made thy lips my daily food,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And in thy temples found a goodlier feast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than this starved age can give me, spite of all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its new-found creeds so sceptical and so dogmatical.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here not Cephissos, not Ilissos flows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The woods of white Colonos are not here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On our bleak hills the olive never blows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No simple priest conducts his lowing steer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up the steep marble way, nor through the town</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do laughing maidens bear to thee the crocus-flowered gown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet tarry! for the boy who loved thee best,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose very name should be a memory</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make thee linger, sleeps in silent rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath the Roman walls, and melody</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still mourns her sweetest lyre; none can play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lute of Adonais: with his lips Song passed away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, when Keats died the Muses still had left</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One silver voice to sing his threnody,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ah! too soon of it we were bereft</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When on that riven night and stormy sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Panthea claimed her singer as her own,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And slew the mouth that praised her; since which time we walk alone,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Save for that fiery heart, that morning star</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of re-arisen England, whose clear eye</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saw from our tottering throne and waste of war</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The grand Greek limbs of young Democracy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rise mightily like Hesperus and bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The great Republic! him at least thy love hath taught to sing,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he hath been with thee at Thessaly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And seen white Atalanta fleet of foot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In passionless and fierce virginity</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hunting the tuskèd boar, his honied lute</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hath pierced the cavern of the hollow hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Venus laughs to know one knee will bow before her still.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he hath kissed the lips of Proserpine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sung the Galilæan’s requiem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That wounded forehead dashed with blood and wine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He hath discrowned, the Ancient Gods in him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have found their last, most ardent worshipper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the new Sign grows grey and dim before its conqueror.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Spirit of Beauty! tarry with us still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It is not quenched the torch of poesy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The star that shook above the Eastern hill</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Holds unassailed its argent armoury</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From all the gathering gloom and fretful fight⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O tarry with us still! for through the long and common night,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Morris, our sweet and simple Chaucer’s child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dear heritor of Spenser’s tuneful reed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With soft and sylvan pipe has oft beguiled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The weary soul of man in troublous need,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from the far and flowerless fields of ice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has brought fair flowers to make an earthly paradise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We know them all, Gudrun the strong men’s bride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Aslaug and Olafson we know them all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How giant Grettir fought and Sigurd died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And what enchantment held the king in thrall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When lonely Brynhild wrestled with the powers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That war against all passion, ah! how oft through summer hours,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long listless summer hours when the noon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Being enamoured of a damask rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgets to journey westward, till the moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The pale usurper of its tribute grows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From a thin sickle to a silver shield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And chides its loitering car⁠—how oft, in some cool grassy field</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Far from the cricket-ground and noisy eight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At Bagley, where the rustling bluebells come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Almost before the blackbird finds a mate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And overstay the swallow, and the hum</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of many murmuring bees flits through the leaves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have I lain poring on the dreamy tales his fancy weaves,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And through their unreal woes and mimic pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wept for myself, and so was purified,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in their simple mirth grew glad again;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For as I sailed upon that pictured tide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The strength and splendour of the storm was mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without the storm’s red ruin, for the singer is divine,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The little laugh of water falling down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is not so musical, the clammy gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Close hoarded in the tiny waxen town</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has less of sweetness in it, and the old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Half-withered reeds that waved in Arcady</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Touched by his lips break forth again to fresher harmony.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Spirit of Beauty, tarry yet awhile!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Although the cheating merchants of the mart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With iron roads profane our lovely isle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And break on whirling wheels the limbs of Art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ay! though the crowded factories beget</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The blindworm Ignorance that slays the soul, O tarry yet!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For One at least there is⁠—He bears his name</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From Dante and the seraph Gabriel⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose double laurels burn with deathless flame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To light thine altar; He too loves thee well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who saw old Merlin lured in Vivien’s snare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the white feet of angels coming down the golden stair,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Loves thee so well, that all the World for him</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A gorgeous-coloured vestiture must wear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Sorrow take a purple diadem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or else be no more Sorrow, and Despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gild its own thorns, and Pain, like Adon, be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even in anguish beautiful;⁠—such is the empery</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Which Painters hold, and such the heritage</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This gentle solemn Spirit doth possess,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being a better mirror of his age</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In all his pity, love, and weariness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than those who can but copy common things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leave the Soul unpainted with its mighty questionings.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they are few, and all romance has flown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And men can prophesy about the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lecture on his arrows⁠—how, alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through a waste void the soulless atoms run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How from each tree its weeping nymph has fled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that no more ’mid English reeds a Naïad shows her head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Methinks these new Actæons boast too soon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That they have spied on beauty; what if we</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have analysed the rainbow, robbed the moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of her most ancient, chastest mystery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall I, the last Endymion, lose all hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because rude eyes peer at my mistress through a telescope!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What profit if this scientific age</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Burst through our gates with all its retinue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of modern miracles! Can it assuage</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One lover’s breaking heart? what can it do</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make one life more beautiful, one day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More godlike in its period? but now the Age of Clay</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Returns in horrid cycle, and the earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath borne again a noisy progeny</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of ignorant Titans, whose ungodly birth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hurls them against the august hierarchy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which sat upon Olympus; to the Dust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They have appealed, and to that barren arbiter they must</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Repair for judgment; let them, if they can,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From Natural Warfare and insensate Chance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Create the new Ideal rule for man!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Methinks that was not my inheritance;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I was nurtured otherwise, my soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Passes from higher heights of life to a more supreme goal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lo! while we spake the earth did turn away</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her visage from the God, and Hecate’s boat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rose silver-laden, till the jealous day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Blew all its torches out: I did not note</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The waning hours, to young Endymions</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Time’s palsied fingers count in vain his rosary of suns!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mark how the yellow iris wearily</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Leans back its throat, as though it would be kissed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By its false chamberer, the dragon-fly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who, like a blue vein on a girl’s white wrist,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleeps on that snowy primrose of the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which ’gins to flush with crimson shame, and die beneath the light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come let us go, against the pallid shield</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the wan sky the almond blossoms gleam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The corncrake nested in the unmown field</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Answers its mate, across the misty stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On fitful wing the startled curlews fly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in his sedgy bed the lark, for joy that Day is nigh,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Scatters the pearlèd dew from off the grass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In tremulous ecstasy to greet the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who soon in gilded panoply will pass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Forth from yon orange-curtained pavilion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hung in the burning east: see, the red rim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’ertops the expectant hills! it is the God! for love of him</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Already the shrill lark is out of sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flooding with waves of song this silent dell⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah! there is something more in that bird’s flight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Than could be tested in a crucible!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the air freshens, let us go, why soon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The woodmen will be here; how we have lived this night of June!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<section id="rosa-mystica" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Rosa Mystica</h2>
			<article id="requiescat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Requiescat</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Tread lightly, she is near</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Under the snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speak gently, she can hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The daisies grow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All her bright golden hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tarnished with rust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She that was young and fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fallen to dust.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lily-like, white as snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She hardly knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was a woman, so</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sweetly she grew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Coffin-board, heavy stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lie on her breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I vex my heart alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She is at rest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Peace, Peace, she cannot hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lyre or sonnet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All my life’s buried here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Heap earth upon it.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Avignon.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="sonnet-on-approaching-italy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Sonnet on Approaching Italy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I reached the Alps: the soul within me burned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Italia, my Italia, at thy name:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And when from out the mountain’s heart I came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw the land for which my life had yearned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I laughed as one who some great prize had earned:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And musing on the marvel of thy fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I watched the day, till marked with wounds of flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The turquoise sky to burnished gold was turned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pine-trees waved as waves a woman’s hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in the orchards every twining spray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was breaking into flakes of blossoming foam:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when I knew that far away at Rome</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In evil bonds a second Peter lay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I wept to see the land so very fair.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Turin.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="san-miniato" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">San Miniato</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">See, I have climbed the mountain side</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up to this holy house of God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where once that Angel-Painter trod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who saw the heavens opened wide,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">And throned upon the crescent moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Virginal white Queen of Grace⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mary! could I but see thy face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death could not come at all too soon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O crowned by God with thorns and pain!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mother of Christ! O mystic wife!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My heart is weary of this life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And over-sad to sing again.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O crowned by God with love and flame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O crowned by Christ the Holy One!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O listen ere the searching sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Show to the world my sin and shame.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ave-maria-gratia-plena" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ave Maria Gratia Plena</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Was this His coming! I had hoped to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A scene of wondrous glory, as was told</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of some great God who in a rain of gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broke open bars and fell on Danae:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or a dread vision as when Semele</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sickening for love and unappeased desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Prayed to see God’s clear body, and the fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caught her brown limbs and slew her utterly:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With such glad dreams I sought this holy place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And now with wondering eyes and heart I stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Before this supreme mystery of Love:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some kneeling girl with passionless pale face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An angel with a lily in his hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And over both the white wings of a Dove.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Florence.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="italia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Italia</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Italia! thou art fallen, though with sheen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of battle-spears thy clamorous armies stride</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the north Alps to the Sicilian tide!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ay! fallen, though the nations hail thee Queen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because rich gold in every town is seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And on thy sapphire-lake in tossing pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of wind-filled vans thy myriad galleys ride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath one flag of red and white and green.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Fair and Strong! O Strong and Fair in vain!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Look southward where Rome’s desecrated town</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lies mourning for her God-anointed King!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look heaven-ward! shall God allow this thing?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nay! but some flame-girt Raphael shall come down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And smite the Spoiler with the sword of pain.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Venice.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="sonnet-written-in-holy-week-at-genoa" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Sonnet</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">Written in Holy Week at Genoa</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>I wandered through Scoglietto’s far retreat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The oranges on each o’erhanging spray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Burned as bright lamps of gold to shame the day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some startled bird with fluttering wings and fleet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made snow of all the blossoms; at my feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like silver moons the pale narcissi lay:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the curved waves that streaked the great green bay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laughed i’ the sun, and life seemed very sweet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outside the young boy-priest passed singing clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Jesus the son of Mary has been slain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O come and fill His sepulchre with flowers.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, God! Ah, God! those dear Hellenic hours</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had drowned all memory of Thy bitter pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Cross, the Crown, the Soldiers and the Spear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rome-unvisited" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Rome Unvisited</h3>
				<section id="rome-unvisited-1">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
					<p>
						<span>The corn has turned from grey to red,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Since first my spirit wandered forth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">From the drear cities of the north,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to Italia’s mountains fled.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And here I set my face towards home,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For all my pilgrimage is done,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Although, methinks, yon blood-red sun</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Marshals the way to Holy Rome.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O Blessed Lady, who dost hold</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Upon the seven hills thy reign!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">O Mother without blot or stain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crowned with bright crowns of triple gold!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O Roma, Roma, at thy feet</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I lay this barren gift of song!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For, ah! the way is steep and long</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That leads unto thy sacred street.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="rome-unvisited-2">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
					<p>
						<span>And yet what joy it were for me</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To turn my feet unto the south,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And journeying towards the Tiber mouth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To kneel again at Fiesole!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And wandering through the tangled pines</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That break the gold of Arno’s stream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To see the purple mist and gleam</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of morning on the Apennines</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>By many a vineyard-hidden home,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Orchard and olive-garden grey,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Till from the drear Campagna’s way</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The seven hills bear up the dome!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="rome-unvisited-3">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h4>
					<p>
						<span>A pilgrim from the northern seas⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">What joy for me to seek alone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The wondrous temple and the throne</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Him who holds the awful keys!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>When, bright with purple and with gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Come priest and holy Cardinal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And borne above the heads of all</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gentle Shepherd of the Fold.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O joy to see before I die</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The only God-anointed King,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And hear the silver trumpets ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A triumph as He passes by!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Or at the brazen-pillared shrine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Holds high the mystic sacrifice,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And shows his God to human eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beneath the veil of bread and wine.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="rome-unvisited-4">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h4>
					<p>
						<span>For lo, what changes time can bring!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The cycles of revolving years</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">May free my heart from all its fears,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And teach my lips a song to sing.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Before yon field of trembling gold</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Is garnered into dusty sheaves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or ere the autumn’s scarlet leaves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flutter as birds adown the wold,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I may have run the glorious race,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And caught the torch while yet aflame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And called upon the holy name</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Him who now doth hide His face.</span>
					</p>
					<footer>
						<p>Arona.</p>
					</footer>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="urbs-sacra-aeterna" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Urbs Sacra Æterna</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Rome! what a scroll of History thine has been;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the first days thy sword republican</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ruled the whole world for many an age’s span:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then of the peoples wert thou royal Queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till in thy streets the bearded Goth was seen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And now upon thy walls the breezes fan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Ah, city crowned by God, discrowned by man!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hated flag of red and white and green.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When was thy glory! when in search for power</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thine eagles flew to greet the double sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the wild nations shuddered at thy rod?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, but thy glory tarried for this hour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When pilgrims kneel before the Holy One,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The prisoned shepherd of the Church of God.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Montre Mario.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="sonnet-on-hearing-the-dies0irae-in-the-sistine-chapel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Sonnet</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">On Hearing the Dies Iræ Sung in the Sistine Chapel</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, Lord, not thus! white lilies in the spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sad olive-groves, or silver-breasted dove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Teach me more clearly of Thy life and love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than terrors of red flame and thundering.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hillside vines dear memories of Thee bring:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A bird at evening flying to its nest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tells me of One who had no place of rest:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think it is of Thee the sparrows sing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come rather on some autumn afternoon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When red and brown are burnished on the leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the fields echo to the gleaner’s song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come when the splendid fulness of the moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Looks down upon the rows of golden sheaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And reap Thy harvest: we have waited long.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="easter-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Easter Day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The silver trumpets rang across the Dome:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The people knelt upon the ground with awe:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And borne upon the necks of men I saw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like some great God, the Holy Lord of Rome.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Priest-like, he wore a robe more white than foam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, king-like, swathed himself in royal red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Three crowns of gold rose high upon his head:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In splendour and in light the Pope passed home.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart stole back across wide wastes of years</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To One who wandered by a lonely sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sought in vain for any place of rest:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Foxes have holes, and every bird its nest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I, only I, must wander wearily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bruise my feet, and drink wine salt with tears.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="e-tenebris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">E Tenebris</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come down, O Christ, and help me! reach thy hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For I am drowning in a stormier sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than Simon on thy lake of Galilee:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wine of life is spilt upon the sand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart is as some famine-murdered land</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whence all good things have perished utterly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And well I know my soul in Hell must lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I this night before God’s throne should stand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“He sleeps perchance, or rideth to the chase,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like Baal, when his prophets howled that name</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From morn to noon on Carmel’s smitten height.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, peace, I shall behold, before the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The feet of brass, the robe more white than flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wounded hands, the weary human face.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="vita-nuova" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Vita Nuova</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I stood by the unvintageable sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till the wet waves drenched face and hair with spray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The long red fires of the dying day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burned in the west; the wind piped drearily;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to the land the clamorous gulls did flee:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Alas!” I cried, “my life is full of pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And who can garner fruit or golden grain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From these waste fields which travail ceaselessly!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My nets gaped wide with many a break and flaw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nathless I threw them as my final cast</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the sea, and waited for the end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When lo! a sudden glory! and I saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the black waters of my tortured past</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The argent splendour of white limbs ascend!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="madonna-mia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Madonna Mia</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A lily-girl, not made for this world’s pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With brown, soft hair close braided by her ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And longing eyes half veiled by slumberous tears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like bluest water seen through mists of rain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale cheeks whereon no love hath left its stain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Red underlip drawn in for fear of love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And white throat, whiter than the silvered dove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through whose wan marble creeps one purple vein.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet, though my lips shall praise her without cease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even to kiss her feet I am not bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Being o’ershadowed by the wings of awe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Dante, when he stood with Beatrice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beneath the flaming Lion’s breast, and saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The seventh Crystal, and the Stair of Gold.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-new-helen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The New Helen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Where hast thou been since round the walls of Troy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sons of God fought in that great emprise?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Why dost thou walk our common earth again?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hast thou forgotten that impassioned boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">His purple galley, and his Tyrian men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And treacherous Aphrodite’s mocking eyes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For surely it was thou, who, like a star</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hung in the silver silence of the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Didst lure the Old World’s chivalry and might</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the clamorous crimson waves of war!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or didst thou rule the fire-laden moon?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In amorous Sidon was thy temple built</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Over the light and laughter of the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where, behind lattice scarlet-wrought and gilt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Some brown-limbed girl did weave thee tapestry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All through the waste and wearied hours of noon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till her wan cheek with flame of passion burned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And she rose up the sea-washed lips to kiss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of some glad Cyprian sailor, safe returned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From Calpé and the cliffs of Herakles!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No! thou art Helen, and none other one!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It was for thee that young Sarpedôn died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And Memnôn’s manhood was untimely spent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It was for thee gold-crested Hector tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Thetis’ child that evil race to run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In the last year of thy beleaguerment;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ay! even now the glory of thy fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Burns in those fields of trampled asphodel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where the high lords whom Ilion knew so well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clash ghostly shields, and call upon thy name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where hast thou been? in that enchanted land</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose slumbering vales forlorn Calypso knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where never mower rose at break of day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But all unswathed the trammelling grasses grew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sad shepherd saw the tall corn stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Till summer’s red had changed to withered grey?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Didst thou lie there by some Lethæan stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Deep brooding on thine ancient memory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crash of broken spears, the fiery gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From shivered helm, the Grecian battle-cry?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, thou wert hidden in that hollow hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With one who is forgotten utterly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That discrowned Queen men call the Erycine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hidden away that never mightst thou see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The face of Her, before whose mouldering shrine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-day at Rome the silent nations kneel;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who gat from Love no joyous gladdening,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But only Love’s intolerable pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Only a sword to pierce her heart in twain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Only the bitterness of child-bearing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The lotus-leaves which heal the wounds of Death</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lie in thy hand; O, be thou kind to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">While yet I know the summer of my days;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For hardly can my tremulous lips draw breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To fill the silver trumpet with thy praise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So bowed am I before thy mystery;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So bowed and broken on Love’s terrible wheel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That I have lost all hope and heart to sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet care I not what ruin time may bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If in thy temple thou wilt let me kneel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, alas, thou wilt not tarry here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But, like that bird, the servant of the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Who flies before the north wind and the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So wilt thou fly our evil land and drear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Back to the tower of thine old delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the red lips of young Euphorion;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor shall I ever see thy face again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But in this poisonous garden-close must stay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crowning my brows with the thorn-crown of pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till all my loveless life shall pass away.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Helen! Helen! Helen! yet a while,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet for a little while, O, tarry here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Till the dawn cometh and the shadows flee!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For in the gladsome sunlight of thy smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of heaven or hell I have no thought or fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Seeing I know no other god but thee:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No other god save him, before whose feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In nets of gold the tired planets move,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The incarnate spirit of spiritual love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who in thy body holds his joyous seat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thou wert not born as common women are!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But, girt with silver splendour of the foam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Didst from the depths of sapphire seas arise!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at thy coming some immortal star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Bearded with flame, blazed in the Eastern skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And waked the shepherds on thine island-home.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou shalt not die: no asps of Egypt creep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Close at thy heels to taint the delicate air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No sullen-blooming poppies stain thy hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those scarlet heralds of eternal sleep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lily of love, pure and inviolate!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tower of ivory! red rose of fire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Thou hast come down our darkness to illume:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For we, close-caught in the wide nets of Fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wearied with waiting for the World’s Desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Aimlessly wandered in the House of gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aimlessly sought some slumberous anodyne</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For wasted lives, for lingering wretchedness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till we beheld thy re-arisen shrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the white glory of thy loveliness.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<article id="the-burden-of-itys" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Burden of Itys</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This English Thames is holier far than Rome,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Those harebells like a sudden flush of sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breaking across the woodland, with the foam</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of meadow-sweet and white anemone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fleck their blue waves⁠—God is likelier there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than hidden in that crystal-hearted star the pale monks bear!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Those violet-gleaming butterflies that take</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yon creamy lily for their pavilion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are monsignores, and where the rushes shake</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A lazy pike lies basking in the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His eyes half shut⁠—he is some mitred old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bishop <i xml:lang="la">in partibus</i>! look at those gaudy scales all green and gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The wind the restless prisoner of the trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Does well for Palæstrina, one would say</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mighty master’s hands were on the keys</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the Maria organ, which they play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When early on some sapphire Easter morn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a high litter red as blood or sin the Pope is borne</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From his dark House out to the Balcony</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above the bronze gates and the crowded square,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose very fountains seem for ecstasy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To toss their silver lances in the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stretching out weak hands to East and West</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In vain sends peace to peaceless lands, to restless nations rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Is not yon lingering orange after-glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That stays to vex the moon more fair than all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rome’s lordliest pageants! strange, a year ago</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I knelt before some crimson Cardinal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who bare the Host across the Esquiline,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now⁠—those common poppies in the wheat seem twice as fine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The blue-green beanfields yonder, tremulous</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the last shower, sweeter perfume bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through this cool evening than the odorous</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flame-jewelled censers the young deacons swing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the grey priest unlocks the curtained shrine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And makes God’s body from the common fruit of corn and vine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Poor Fra Giovanni bawling at the mass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were out of tune now, for a small brown bird</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sings overhead, and through the long cool grass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I see that throbbing throat which once I heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On starlit hills of flower-starred Arcady,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once where the white and crescent sand of Salamis meets sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sweet is the swallow twittering on the eaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At daybreak, when the mower whets his scythe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stock-doves murmur, and the milkmaid leaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her little lonely bed, and carols blithe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see the heavy-lowing cattle wait</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stretching their huge and dripping mouths across the farmyard gate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And sweet the hops upon the Kentish leas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sweet the wind that lifts the new-mown hay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sweet the fretful swarms of grumbling bees</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That round and round the linden blossoms play;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sweet the heifer breathing in the stall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the green bursting figs that hang upon the red-brick wall,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And sweet to hear the cuckoo mock the spring</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While the last violet loiters by the well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sweet to hear the shepherd Daphnis sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The song of Linus through a sunny dell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of warm Arcadia where the corn is gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the slight lithe-limbed reapers dance about the wattled fold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And sweet with young Lycoris to recline</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In some Illyrian valley far away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where canopied on herbs amaracine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We too might waste the summer-trancèd day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Matching our reeds in sportive rivalry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While far beneath us frets the troubled purple of the sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But sweeter far if silver-sandalled foot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of some long-hidden God should ever tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Nuneham meadows, if with reeded flute</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pressed to his lips some Faun might raise his head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the green water-flags, ah! sweet indeed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see the heavenly herdsman call his white-fleeced flock to feed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then sing to me thou tuneful chorister,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though what thou sing’st be thine own requiem!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell me thy tale thou hapless chronicler</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of thine own tragedies! do not contemn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These unfamiliar haunts, this English field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For many a lovely coronal our northern isle can yield</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Which Grecian meadows know not, many a rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which all day long in vales Æolian</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A lad might seek in vain for over-grows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our hedges like a wanton courtesan</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unthrifty of its beauty; lilies too</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ilissos never mirrored star our streams, and cockles blue</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dot the green wheat which, though they are the signs</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For swallows going south, would never spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their azure tents between the Attic vines;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Even that little weed of ragged red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which bids the robin pipe, in Arcady</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would be a trespasser, and many an unsung elegy</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sleeps in the reeds that fringe our winding Thames</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which to awake were sweeter ravishment</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than ever Syrinx wept for, diadems</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of brown bee-studded orchids which were meant</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Cytheræa’s brows are hidden here</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unknown to Cytheræa, and by yonder pasturing steer</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There is a tiny yellow daffodil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The butterfly can see it from afar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Although one summer evening’s dew could fill</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its little cup twice over ere the star</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had called the lazy shepherd to his fold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And be no prodigal; each leaf is flecked with spotted gold</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As if Jove’s gorgeous leman Danae</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hot from his gilded arms had stooped to kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The trembling petals, or young Mercury</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Low-flying to the dusky ford of Dis</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had with one feather of his pinions</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just brushed them! the slight stem which bears the burden of its suns</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Is hardly thicker than the gossamer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or poor Arachne’s silver tapestry⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men say it bloomed upon the sepulchre</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of One I sometime worshipped, but to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seems to bring diviner memories</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of faun-loved Heliconian glades and blue nymph-haunted seas,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of an untrodden vale at Tempe where</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the clear river’s marge Narcissus lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tangle of the forest in his hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The silence of the woodland in his eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wooing that drifting imagery which is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No sooner kissed than broken; memories of Salmacis</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who is not boy nor girl and yet is both,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fed by two fires and unsatisfied</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through their excess, each passion being loth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For love’s own sake to leave the other’s side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet killing love by staying; memories</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Oreads peeping through the leaves of silent moonlit trees,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of lonely Ariadne on the wharf</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At Naxos, when she saw the treacherous crew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far out at sea, and waved her crimson scarf</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And called false Theseus back again nor knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Dionysos on an amber pard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was close behind her; memories of what Mæonia’s bard</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With sightless eyes beheld, the wall of Troy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Queen Helen lying in the ivory room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And at her side an amorous red-lipped boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Trimming with dainty hand his helmet’s plume,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And far away the moil, the shout, the groan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As Hector shielded off the spear and Ajax hurled the stone;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of wingèd Perseus with his flawless sword</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cleaving the snaky tresses of the witch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all those tales imperishably stored</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In little Grecian urns, freightage more rich</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than any gaudy galleon of Spain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bare from the Indies ever! these at least bring back again,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For well I know they are not dead at all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The ancient Gods of Grecian poesy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are asleep, and when they hear thee call</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will wake and think ’t is very Thessaly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This Thames the Daulian waters, this cool glade</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The yellow-irised mead where once young Itys laughed and played.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If it was thou dear jasmine-cradled bird</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who from the leafy stillness of thy throne</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sang to the wondrous boy, until he heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The horn of Atalanta faintly blown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the Cumnor hills, and wandering</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through Bagley wood at evening found the Attic poets’ spring⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! tiny sober-suited advocate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That pleadest for the moon against the day!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If thou didst make the shepherd seek his mate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On that sweet questing, when Proserpina</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgot it was not Sicily and leant</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the mossy Sandford stile in ravished wonderment⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Light-winged and bright-eyed miracle of the wood!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If ever thou didst soothe with melody</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One of that little clan, that brotherhood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which loved the morning-star of Tuscany</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More than the perfect sun of Raphael</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And is immortal, sing to me! for I too love thee well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing on! sing on! let the dull world grow young,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let elemental things take form again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the old shapes of Beauty walk among</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The simple garths and open crofts, as when</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The son of Leto bare the willow rod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the soft sheep and shaggy goats followed the boyish God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing on! sing on! and Bacchus will be here</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Astride upon his gorgeous Indian throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And over whimpering tigers shake the spear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With yellow ivy crowned and gummy cone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While at his side the wanton Bassarid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will throw the lion by the mane and catch the mountain kid!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing on! and I will wear the leopard skin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And steal the moonèd wings of Ashtaroth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon whose icy chariot we could win</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cithæron in an hour ere the froth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has over-brimmed the wine-vat or the Faun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ceased from the treading! ay, before the flickering lamp of dawn</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Has scared the hooting owlet to its nest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And warned the bat to close its filmy vans,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some Mænad girl with vine-leaves on her breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will filch their beech-nuts from the sleeping Pans</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So softly that the little nested thrush</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will never wake, and then with shrilly laugh and leap will rush</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Down the green valley where the fallen dew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lies thick beneath the elm and count her store,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the brown Satyrs in a jolly crew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Trample the loosestrife down along the shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where their hornèd master sits in state</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring strawberries and bloomy plums upon a wicker crate!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing on! and soon with passion-wearied face</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the cool leaves Apollo’s lad will come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Tyrian prince his bristled boar will chase</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Adown the chestnut-copses all a-bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ivory-limbed, grey-eyed, with look of pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>After yon velvet-coated deer the virgin maid will ride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing on! and I the dying boy will see</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stain with his purple blood the waxen bell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That overweighs the jacinth, and to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wretched Cyprian her woe will tell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I will kiss her mouth and streaming eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lead her to the myrtle-hidden grove where Adon lies!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Cry out aloud on Itys! memory</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That foster-brother of remorse and pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drops poison in mine ear⁠—O to be free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To burn one’s old ships! and to launch again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the white-plumed battle of the waves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fight old Proteus for the spoil of coral-flowered caves!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O for Medea with her poppied spell!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O for the secret of the Colchian shrine!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O for one leaf of that pale asphodel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which binds the tired brows of Proserpine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sheds such wondrous dews at eve that she</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dreams of the fields of Enna, by the far Sicilian sea,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where oft the golden-girdled bee she chased</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From lily to lily on the level mead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere yet her sombre Lord had bid her taste</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The deadly fruit of that pomegranate seed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere the black steeds had harried her away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down to the faint and flowerless land, the sick and sunless day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O for one midnight and as paramour</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Venus of the little Melian farm!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O that some antique statue for one hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Might wake to passion, and that I could charm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Dawn at Florence from its dumb despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mix with those mighty limbs and make that giant breast my lair!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing on! sing on! I would be drunk with life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Drunk with the trampled vintage of my youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would forget the wearying wasted strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The riven veil, the Gorgon eyes of Truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The prayerless vigil and the cry for prayer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The barren gifts, the lifted arms, the dull insensate air!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing on! sing on! O feathered Niobe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou canst make sorrow beautiful, and steal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From joy its sweetest music, not as we</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who by dead voiceless silence strive to heal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our too untented wounds, and do but keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pain barricadoed in our hearts, and murder pillowed sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing louder yet, why must I still behold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wan white face of that deserted Christ,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose bleeding hands my hands did once enfold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose smitten lips my lips so oft have kissed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now in mute and marble misery</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sits in his lone dishonoured House and weeps, perchance for me?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Memory cast down thy wreathèd shell!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Break thy hoarse lute O sad Melpomene!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Sorrow, Sorrow keep thy cloistered cell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor dim with tears this limpid Castaly!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cease, Philomel, thou dost the forest wrong</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To vex its sylvan quiet with such wild impassioned song!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Cease, cease, or if ’t is anguish to be dumb</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Take from the pastoral thrush her simpler air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose jocund carelessness doth more become</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This English woodland than thy keen despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah! cease and let the north wind bear thy lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Back to the rocky hills of Thrace, the stormy Daulian bay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A moment more, the startled leaves had stirred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Endymion would have passed across the mead</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Moonstruck with love, and this still Thames had heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pan plash and paddle groping for some reed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lure from her blue cave that Naiad maid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who for such piping listens half in joy and half afraid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A moment more, the waking dove had cooed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The silver daughter of the silver sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the fond gyves of clinging hands had wooed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her wanton from the chase, and Dryope</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had thrust aside the branches of her oak</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see the lusty gold-haired lad rein in his snorting yoke.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A moment more, the trees had stooped to kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pale Daphne just awakening from the swoon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of tremulous laurels, lonely Salmacis</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had bared his barren beauty to the moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And through the vale with sad voluptuous smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Antinous had wandered, the red lotus of the Nile</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Down leaning from his black and clustering hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To shade those slumberous eyelids’ caverned bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or else on yonder grassy slope with bare</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">High-tuniced limbs unravished Artemis</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had bade her hounds give tongue, and roused the deer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From his green ambuscade with shrill halloo and pricking spear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lie still, lie still, O passionate heart, lie still!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O Melancholy, fold thy raven wing!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O sobbing Dryad, from thy hollow hill</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Come not with such despondent answering!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more thou wingèd Marsyas complain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Apollo loveth not to hear such troubled songs of pain!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It was a dream, the glade is tenantless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No soft Ionian laughter moves the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Thames creeps on in sluggish leadenness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And from the copse left desolate and bare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fled is young Bacchus with his revelry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet still from Nuneham wood there comes that thrilling melody</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So sad, that one might think a human heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brake in each separate note, a quality</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which music sometimes has, being the Art</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which is most nigh to tears and memory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poor mourning Philomel, what dost thou fear?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sister doth not haunt these fields, Pandion is not here,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here is no cruel Lord with murderous blade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No woven web of bloody heraldries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But mossy dells for roving comrades made,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Warm valleys where the tired student lies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With half-shut book, and many a winding walk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where rustic lovers stray at eve in happy simple talk.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The harmless rabbit gambols with its young</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across the trampled towing-path, where late</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A troop of laughing boys in jostling throng</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cheered with their noisy cries the racing eight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gossamer, with ravelled silver threads,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Works at its little loom, and from the dusky red-eaved sheds</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of the lone Farm a flickering light shines out</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the swinked shepherd drives his bleating flock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Back to their wattled sheep-cotes, a faint shout</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Comes from some Oxford boat at Sandford lock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And starts the moor-hen from the sedgy rill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the dim lengthening shadows flit like swallows up the hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The heron passes homeward to the mere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The blue mist creeps among the shivering trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gold world by world the silent stars appear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And like a blossom blown before the breeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A white moon drifts across the shimmering sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mute arbitress of all thy sad, thy rapturous threnody.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She does not heed thee, wherefore should she heed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She knows Endymion is not far away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis I, ’tis I, whose soul is as the reed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which has no message of its own to play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So pipes another’s bidding, it is I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drifting with every wind on the wide sea of misery.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! the brown bird has ceased: one exquisite trill</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">About the sombre woodland seems to cling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dying in music, else the air is still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So still that one might hear the bat’s small wing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wander and wheel above the pines, or tell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each tiny dew-drop dripping from the bluebell’s brimming cell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And far away across the lengthening wold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across the willowy flats and thickets brown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Magdalen’s tall tower tipped with tremulous gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Marks the long High Street of the little town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And warns me to return; I must not wait,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hark! ’t is the curfew booming from the bell at Christ Church gate.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<section id="wind-flowers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Wind Flowers</h2>
			<article id="impression-du-matin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Impression du Matin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Thames nocturne of blue and gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Changed to a Harmony in grey:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A barge with ochre-coloured hay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dropt from the wharf: and chill and cold</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The yellow fog came creeping down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The bridges, till the houses’ walls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seemed changed to shadows and St. Paul’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loomed like a bubble o’er the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then suddenly arose the clang</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of waking life; the streets were stirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With country waggons: and a bird</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flew to the glistening roofs and sang.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But one pale woman all alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The daylight kissing her wan hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Loitered beneath the gas lamps’ flare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With lips of flame and heart of stone.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="magdalen-walks" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Magdalen Walks</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The little white clouds are racing over the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the fields are strewn with the gold of the flower of March,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The daffodil breaks under foot, and the tasselled larch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sways and swings as the thrush goes hurrying by.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A delicate odour is borne on the wings of the morning breeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The odour of deep wet grass, and of brown new-furrowed earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The birds are singing for joy of the Spring’s glad birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hopping from branch to branch on the rocking trees.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And all the woods are alive with the murmur and sound of Spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the rose-bud breaks into pink on the climbing briar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the crocus-bed is a quivering moon of fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Girdled round with the belt of an amethyst ring.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the plane to the pine-tree is whispering some tale of love</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till it rustles with laughter and tosses its mantle of green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the gloom of the wych-elm’s hollow is lit with the iris sheen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the burnished rainbow throat and the silver breast of a dove.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See! the lark starts up from his bed in the meadow there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Breaking the gossamer threads and the nets of dew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And flashing adown the river, a flame of blue!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The kingfisher flies like an arrow, and wounds the air.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="athanasia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Athanasia</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To that gaunt House of Art which lacks for naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of all the great things men have saved from Time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The withered body of a girl was brought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dead ere the world’s glad youth had touched its prime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seen by lonely Arabs lying hid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the dim womb of some black pyramid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when they had unloosed the linen band</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which swathed the Egyptian’s body⁠—lo! was found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Closed in the wasted hollow of her hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A little seed, which sown in English ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did wondrous snow of starry blossoms bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spread rich odours through our spring-tide air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With such strange arts this flower did allure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That all forgotten was the asphodel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the brown bee, the lily’s paramour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forsook the cup where he was wont to dwell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For not a thing of earth it seemed to be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But stolen from some heavenly Arcady.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In vain the sad narcissus, wan and white</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At its own beauty, hung across the stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The purple dragon-fly had no delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With its gold dust to make his wings a-gleam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah! no delight the jasmine-bloom to kiss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or brush the rain-pearls from the eucharis.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For love of it the passionate nightingale</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forgot the hills of Thrace, the cruel king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the pale dove no longer cared to sail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through the wet woods at time of blossoming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But round this flower of Egypt sought to float,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With silvered wing and amethystine throat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>While the hot sun blazed in his tower of blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A cooling wind crept from the land of snows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the warm south with tender tears of dew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Drenched its white leaves when Hesperos up-rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid those sea-green meadows of the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On which the scarlet bars of sunset lie.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when o’er wastes of lily-haunted field</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tired birds had stayed their amorous tune,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And broad and glittering like an argent shield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">High in the sapphire heavens hung the moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did no strange dream or evil memory make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each tremulous petal of its blossoms shake?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah no! to this bright flower a thousand years</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seemed but the lingering of a summer’s day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It never knew the tide of cankering fears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which turn a boy’s gold hair to withered grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dread desire of death it never knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or how all folk that they were born must rue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For we to death with pipe and dancing go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor would we pass the ivory gate again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As some sad river wearied of its flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through the dull plains, the haunts of common men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaps lover-like into the terrible sea!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And counts it gain to die so gloriously.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We mar our lordly strength in barren strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the world’s legions led by clamorous care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It never feels decay but gathers life</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the pure sunlight and the supreme air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We live beneath Time’s wasting sovereignty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is the child of all eternity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="serenade-for-music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Serenade</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">(For Music)</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The western wind is blowing fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Across the dark Ægean sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at the secret marble stair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My Tyrian galley waits for thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come down! the purple sail is spread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The watchman sleeps within the town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O leave thy lily-flowered bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O Lady mine come down, come down!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She will not come, I know her well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of lover’s vows she hath no care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And little good a man can tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of one so cruel and so fair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>True love is but a woman’s toy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They never know the lover’s pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I who loved as loves a boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Must love in vain, must love in vain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O noble pilot, tell me true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is that the sheen of golden hair?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or is it but the tangled dew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That binds the passion-flowers there?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good sailor come and tell me now</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is that my Lady’s lily hand?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or is it but the gleaming prow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or is it but the silver sand?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No! no! ’tis not the tangled dew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis not the silver-fretted sand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is my own dear Lady true</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With golden hair and lily hand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O noble pilot, steer for Troy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Good sailor, ply the labouring oar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is the Queen of life and joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whom we must bear from Grecian shore!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The waning sky grows faint and blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It wants an hour still of day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aboard! aboard! my gallant crew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O Lady mine, away! away!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O noble pilot, steer for Troy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Good sailor, ply the labouring oar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O loved as only loves a boy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O loved for ever evermore!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="endymion-for-music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Endymion</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">(For Music)</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The apple trees are hung with gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And birds are loud in Arcady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sheep lie bleating in the fold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wild goat runs across the wold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But yesterday his love he told,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I know he will come back to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O rising moon! O Lady moon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be you my lover’s sentinel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You cannot choose but know him well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he is shod with purple shoon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cannot choose but know my love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For he a shepherd’s crook doth bear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he is soft as any dove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And brown and curly is his hair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The turtle now has ceased to call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon her crimson-footed groom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grey wolf prowls about the stall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lily’s singing seneschal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleeps in the lily-bell, and all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The violet hills are lost in gloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O risen moon! O holy moon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stand on the top of Helice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And if my own true love you see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah! if you see the purple shoon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hazel crook, the lad’s brown hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The goat-skin wrapped about his arm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell him that I am waiting where</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The rushlight glimmers in the Farm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The falling dew is cold and chill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And no bird sings in Arcady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little fauns have left the hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even the tired daffodil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has closed its gilded doors, and still</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My lover comes not back to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>False moon! False moon! O waning moon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where is my own true lover gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where are the lips vermilion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shepherd’s crook, the purple shoon?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why spread that silver pavilion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why wear that veil of drifting mist?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah! thou hast young Endymion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou hast the lips that should be kissed!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="la-bella-donna-della-mia-mente" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">La Bella Donna Della Mia Mente</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My limbs are wasted with a flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My feet are sore with travelling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For, calling on my Lady’s name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My lips have now forgot to sing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Linnet in the wild-rose brake</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Strain for my Love thy melody,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Lark sing louder for love’s sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My gentle Lady passeth by.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She is too fair for any man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To see or hold his heart’s delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fairer than Queen or courtesan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or moonlit water in the night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her hair is bound with myrtle leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Green leaves upon her golden hair!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Green grasses through the yellow sheaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of autumn corn are not more fair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her little lips, more made to kiss</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than to cry bitterly for pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are tremulous as brook-water is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or roses after evening rain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her neck is like white melilote</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flushing for pleasure of the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The throbbing of the linnet’s throat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is not so sweet to look upon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As a pomegranate, cut in twain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">White-seeded, is her crimson mouth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her cheeks are as the fading stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where the peach reddens to the south.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O twining hands! O delicate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">White body made for love and pain!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O House of love! O desolate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pale flower beaten by the rain!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chanson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Chanson</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A ring of gold and a milk-white dove</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are goodly gifts for thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a hempen rope for your own love</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To hang upon a tree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For you a House of Ivory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Roses are white in the rose-bower)!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A narrow bed for me to lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(White, O white, is the hemlock flower)!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Myrtle and jessamine for you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(O the red rose is fair to see)!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For me the cypress and the rue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Fairest of all is rosemary)!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For you three lovers of your hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Green grass where a man lies dead)!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For me three paces on the sand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Plant lilies at my head)!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<article id="charmides" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Charmides</h2>
			<section id="charmides-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He was a Grecian lad, who coming home</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With pulpy figs and wine from Sicily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood at his galley’s prow, and let the foam</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blow through his crisp brown curls unconsciously,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And holding wave and wind in boy’s despite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peered from his dripping seat across the wet and stormy night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Till with the dawn he saw a burnished spear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a thin thread of gold against the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hoisted sail, and strained the creaking gear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bade the pilot head her lustily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the nor’west gale, and all day long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held on his way, and marked the rowers’ time with measured song.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when the faint Corinthian hills were red</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dropped anchor in a little sandy bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with fresh boughs of olive crowned his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And brushed from cheek and throat the hoary spray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And washed his limbs with oil, and from the hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brought out his linen tunic and his sandals brazen-soled,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And a rich robe stained with the fishes’ juice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which of some swarthy trader he had bought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the sunny quay at Syracuse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And was with Tyrian broideries inwrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by the questioning merchants made his way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up through the soft and silver woods, and when the labouring day</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Had spun its tangled web of crimson cloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Clomb the high hill, and with swift silent feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crept to the fane unnoticed by the crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of busy priests, and from some dark retreat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watched the young swains his frolic playmates bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The firstling of their little flock, and the shy shepherd fling</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The crackling salt upon the flame, or hang</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His studded crook against the temple wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Her who keeps away the ravenous fang</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the base wolf from homestead and from stall;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the clear-voiced maidens ’gan to sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to the altar each man brought some goodly offering,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A beechen cup brimming with milky foam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A fair cloth wrought with cunning imagery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hounds in chase, a waxen honey-comb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dripping with oozy gold which scarce the bee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had ceased from building, a black skin of oil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meet for the wrestlers, a great boar the fierce and white-tusked spoil</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Stolen from Artemis that jealous maid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To please Athena, and the dappled hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a tall stag who in some mountain glade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had met the shaft; and then the herald cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from the pillared precinct one by one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went the glad Greeks well pleased that they their simple vows had done.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the old priest put out the waning fires</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save that one lamp whose restless ruby glowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ever in the cell, and the shrill lyres</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came fainter on the wind, as down the road</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In joyous dance these country folk did pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with stout hands the warder closed the gates of polished brass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long time he lay and hardly dared to breathe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And heard the cadenced drip of spilt-out wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rose-petals falling from the wreath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As the night breezes wandered through the shrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seemed to be in some entrancèd swoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till through the open roof above the full and brimming moon</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Flooded with sheeny waves the marble floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When from his nook up leapt the venturous lad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flinging wide the cedar-carven door</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beheld an awful image saffron-clad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And armed for battle! the gaunt Griffin glared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the huge helm, and the long lance of wreck and ruin flared</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like a red rod of flame, stony and steeled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Gorgon’s head its leaden eyeballs rolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And writhed its snaky horrors through the shield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gaped aghast with bloodless lips and cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In passion impotent, while with blind gaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blinking owl between the feet hooted in shrill amaze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The lonely fisher as he trimmed his lamp</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Far out at sea off Sunium, or cast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The net for tunnies, heard a brazen tramp</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of horses smite the waves, and a wild blast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Divide the folded curtains of the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knelt upon the little poop, and prayed in holy fright.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And guilty lovers in their venery</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forgat a little while their stolen sweets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deeming they heard dread Dian’s bitter cry;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the grim watchmen on their lofty seats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ran to their shields in haste precipitate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or strained black-bearded throats across the dusky parapet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For round the temple rolled the clang of arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the twelve Gods leapt up in marble fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the air quaked with dissonant alarums</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till huge Poseidon shook his mighty spear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on the frieze the prancing horses neighed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the low tread of hurrying feet rang from the cavalcade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ready for death with parted lips he stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And well content at such a price to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That calm wide brow, that terrible maidenhood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The marvel of that pitiless chastity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah! well content indeed, for never wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since Troy’s young shepherd prince had seen so wonderful a sight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ready for death he stood, but lo! the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grew silent, and the horses ceased to neigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And off his brow he tossed the clustering hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And from his limbs he throw the cloak away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For whom would not such love make desperate?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nigher came, and touched her throat, and with hands violate</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Undid the cuirass, and the crocus gown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bared the breasts of polished ivory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till from the waist the peplos falling down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Left visible the secret mystery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which to no lover will Athena show,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grand cool flanks, the crescent thighs, the bossy hills of snow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Those who have never known a lover’s sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let them not read my ditty, it will be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To their dull ears so musicless and thin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That they will have no joy of it, but ye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To whose wan cheeks now creeps the lingering smile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ye who have learned who Eros is⁠—O listen yet awhile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A little space he let his greedy eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rest on the burnished image, till mere sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half swooned for surfeit of such luxuries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And then his lips in hungering delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fed on her lips, and round the towered neck</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He flung his arms, nor cared at all his passion’s will to check.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Never I ween did lover hold such tryst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For all night long he murmured honeyed word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw her sweet unravished limbs, and kissed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her pale and argent body undisturbed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And paddled with the polished throat, and pressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hot and beating heart upon her chill and icy breast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was as if Numidian javelins</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pierced through and through his wild and whirling brain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his nerves thrilled like throbbing violins</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In exquisite pulsation, and the pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was such sweet anguish that he never drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His lips from hers till overhead the lark of warning flew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They who have never seen the daylight peer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into a darkened room, and drawn the curtain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with dull eyes and wearied from some dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And worshipped body risen, they for certain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will never know of what I try to sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How long the last kiss was, how fond and late his lingering.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The moon was girdled with a crystal rim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sign which shipmen say is ominous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wrath in heaven, the wan stars were dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the low lightening east was tremulous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the faint fluttering wings of flying dawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere from the silent sombre shrine this lover had withdrawn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Down the steep rock with hurried feet and fast</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Clomb the brave lad, and reached the cave of Pan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heard the goat-foot snoring as he passed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And leapt upon a grassy knoll and ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a young fawn unto an olive wood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which in a shady valley by the well-built city stood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And sought a little stream, which well he knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For oftentimes with boyish careless shout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The green and crested grebe he would pursue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or snare in woven net the silver trout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And down amid the startled reeds he lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Panting in breathless sweet affright, and waited for the day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On the green bank he lay, and let one hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dip in the cool dark eddies listlessly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And soon the breath of morning came and fanned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His hot flushed cheeks, or lifted wantonly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tangled curls from off his forehead, while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He on the running water gazed with strange and secret smile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And soon the shepherd in rough woollen cloak</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With his long crook undid the wattled cotes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from the stack a thin blue wreath of smoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Curled through the air across the ripening oats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on the hill the yellow house-dog bayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As through the crisp and rustling fern the heavy cattle strayed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when the light-foot mower went afield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Across the meadows laced with threaded dew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sheep bleated on the misty weald,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And from its nest the waking corncrake flew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some woodmen saw him lying by the stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And marvelled much that any lad so beautiful could seem,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor deemed him born of mortals, and one said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“It is young Hylas, that false runaway</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who with a Naiad now would make his bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forgetting Herakles,” but others, “Nay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is Narcissus, his own paramour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those are the fond and crimson lips no woman can allure.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when they nearer came a third one cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“It is young Dionysos who has hid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His spear and fawnskin by the river side</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Weary of hunting with the Bassarid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wise indeed were we away to fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They live not long who on the gods immortal come to spy.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So turned they back, and feared to look behind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And told the timid swain how they had seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid the reeds some woodland God reclined,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And no man dared to cross the open green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on that day no olive-tree was slain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor rushes cut, but all deserted was the fair domain,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Save when the neat-herd’s lad, his empty pail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Well slung upon his back, with leap and bound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raced on the other side, and stopped to hail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hoping that he some comrade new had found,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gat no answer, and then half afraid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passed on his simple way, or down the still and silent glade</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A little girl ran laughing from the farm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not thinking of love’s secret mysteries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when she saw the white and gleaming arm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all his manlihood, with longing eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose passion mocked her sweet virginity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watched him awhile, and then stole back sadly and wearily.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Far off he heard the city’s hum and noise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And now and then the shriller laughter where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The passionate purity of brown-limbed boys</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wrestled or raced in the clear healthful air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now and then a little tinkling bell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the shorn wether led the sheep down to the mossy well.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through the grey willows danced the fretful gnat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The grasshopper chirped idly from the tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sleek and oily coat the water-rat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Breasting the little ripples manfully</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made for the wild-duck’s nest, from bough to bough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hopped the shy finch, and the huge tortoise crept across the slough.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On the faint wind floated the silky seeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As the bright scythe swept through the waving grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ousel-cock splashed circles in the reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And flecked with silver whorls the forest’s glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which scarce had caught again its imagery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere from its bed the dusky tench leapt at the dragon-fly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But little care had he for any thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though up and down the beech the squirrel played,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from the copse the linnet ’gan to sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To its brown mate its sweetest serenade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah! little care indeed, for he had seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The breasts of Pallas and the naked wonder of the Queen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when the herdsman called his straggling goats</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With whistling pipe across the rocky road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the shard-beetle with its trumpet-notes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Boomed through the darkening woods, and seemed to bode</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of coming storm, and the belated crane</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passed homeward like a shadow, and the dull big drops of rain</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fell on the pattering fig-leaves, up he rose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And from the gloomy forest went his way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Past sombre homestead and wet orchard-close,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And came at last unto a little quay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And called his mates aboard, and took his seat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the high poop, and pushed from land, and loosed the dripping sheet,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And steered across the bay, and when nine suns</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Passed down the long and laddered way of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nine pale moons had breathed their orisons</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the chaste stars their confessors, or told</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their dearest secret to the downy moth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That will not fly at noonday, through the foam and surging froth</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Came a great owl with yellow sulphurous eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And lit upon the ship, whose timbers creaked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As though the lading of three argosies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were in the hold, and flapped its wings and shrieked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And darkness straightway stole across the deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sheathed was Orion’s sword, dread Mars himself fled down the steep,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the moon hid behind a tawny mask</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of drifting cloud, and from the ocean’s marge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose the red plume, the huge and hornèd casque,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The seven-cubit spear, the brazen targe!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And clad in bright and burnished panoply</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Athena strode across the stretch of sick and shivering sea!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To the dull sailors’ sight her loosened looks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seemed like the jagged storm-rack, and her feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only the spume that floats on hidden rocks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, marking how the rising waters beat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the rolling ship, the pilot cried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the young helmsman at the stern to luff to windward side.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But he, the overbold adulterer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A dear profaner of great mysteries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An ardent amorous idolater,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When he beheld those grand relentless eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laughed loud for joy, and crying out “I come”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leapt from the lofty poop into the chill and churning foam.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then fell from the high heaven one bright star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One dancer left the circling galaxy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And back to Athens on her clattering car</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In all the pride of venged divinity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale Pallas swept with shrill and steely clank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a few gurgling bubbles rose where her boy lover sank.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the mast shuddered as the gaunt owl flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With mocking hoots after the wrathful Queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the old pilot bade the trembling crew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hoist the big sail, and told how he had seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Close to the stern a dim and giant form,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a dipping swallow the stout ship dashed through the storm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And no man dared to speak of Charmides</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Deeming that he some evil thing had wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when they reached the strait Symplegades</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They beached their galley on the shore, and sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The toll-gate of the city hastily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the market showed their brown and pictured pottery.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="charmides-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But some good Triton-god had ruth, and bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The boy’s drowned body back to Grecian land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mermaids combed his dank and dripping hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And smoothed his brow, and loosed his clenching hand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some brought sweet spices from far Araby,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And others bade the halcyon sing her softest lullaby.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when he neared his old Athenian home,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A mighty billow rose up suddenly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon whose oily back the clotted foam</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lay diapered in some strange fantasy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And clasping him unto its glassy breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swept landward, like a white-maned steed upon a venturous quest!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now where Colonos leans unto the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There lies a long and level stretch of lawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rabbit knows it, and the mountain bee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For it deserts Hymettus, and the Faun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is not afraid, for never through the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comes a cry ruder than the shout of shepherd lads at play.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But often from the thorny labyrinth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And tangled branches of the circling wood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stealthy hunter sees young Hyacinth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hurling the polished disk, and draws his hood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over his guilty gaze, and creeps away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor dares to wind his horn, or⁠—else at the first break of day</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Dryads come and throw the leathern ball</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Along the reedy shore, and circumvent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some goat-eared Pan to be their seneschal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For fear of bold Poseidon’s ravishment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loose their girdles, with shy timorous eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest from the surf his azure arms and purple beard should rise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On this side and on that a rocky cave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hung with the yellow-belled laburnum, stands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smooth is the beach, save where some ebbing wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Leaves its faint outline etched upon the sands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As though it feared to be too soon forgot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the green rush, its playfellow⁠—and yet, it is a spot</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So small, that the inconstant butterfly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Could steal the hoarded money from each flower</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere it was noon, and still not satisfy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its over-greedy love⁠—within an hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sailor boy, were he but rude enow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To land and pluck a garland for his galley’s painted prow,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Would almost leave the little meadow bare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For it knows nothing of great pageantry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only a few narcissi here and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stand separate in sweet austerity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dotting the unmown grass with silver stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here and there a daffodil waves tiny scimitars.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hither the billow brought him, and was glad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of such dear servitude, and where the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was virgin of all waters laid the lad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon the golden margent of the strand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a lingering lover oft returned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To kiss those pallid limbs which once with intense fire burned,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ere the wet seas had quenched that holocaust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That self-fed flame, that passionate lustihead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere grisly death with chill and nipping frost</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had withered up those lilies white and red</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, while the boy would through the forest range,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Answered each other in a sweet antiphonal counter-change.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when at dawn the wood-nymphs, hand-in-hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Threaded the bosky dell, their satyr spied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The boy’s pale body stretched upon the sand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And feared Poseidon’s treachery, and cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like bright sunbeams flitting through a glade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each startled Dryad sought some safe and leafy ambuscade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Save one white girl, who deemed it would not be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So dread a thing to feel a sea-god’s arms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crushing her breasts in amorous tyranny,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And longed to listen to those subtle charms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Insidious lovers weave when they would win</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some fencèd fortress, and stole back again, nor thought it sin</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To yield her treasure unto one so fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And lay beside him, thirsty with love’s drouth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Called him soft names, played with his tangled hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And with hot lips made havoc of his mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Afraid he might not wake, and then afraid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest he might wake too soon, fled back, and then, fond renegade,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Returned to fresh assault, and all day long</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sat at his side, and laughed at her new toy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And held his hand, and sang her sweetest song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then frowned to see how froward was the boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who would not with her maidenhood entwine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor knew that three days since his eyes had looked on Proserpine,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor knew what sacrilege his lips had done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But said, “He will awake, I know him well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will awake at evening when the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hangs his red shield on Corinth’s citadel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This sleep is but a cruel treachery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make me love him more, and in some cavern of the sea</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Deeper than ever falls the fisher’s line</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Already a huge Triton blows his horn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And weaves a garland from the crystalline</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And drifting ocean-tendrils to adorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The emerald pillars of our bridal bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For sphered in foaming silver, and with coral-crownèd head,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We two will sit upon a throne of pearl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a blue wave will be our canopy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at our feet the water-snakes will curl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In all their amethystine panoply</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of diamonded mail, and we will mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mullets swimming by the mast of some storm-foundered bark,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Vermilion-finned with eyes of bossy gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like flakes of crimson light, and the great deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His glassy-portaled chamber will unfold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And we will see the painted dolphins sleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cradled by murmuring halcyons on the rocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Proteus in quaint suit of green pastures his monstrous flocks.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And tremulous opal-hued anemones</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will wave their purple fringes where we tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the mirrored floor, and argosies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of fishes flecked with tawny scales will thread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The drifting cordage of the shattered wreck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And honey-coloured amber beads our twining limbs will deck.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when that baffled Lord of War the Sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With gaudy pennon flying passed away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into his brazen House, and one by one</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The little yellow stars began to stray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the field of heaven, ah! then indeed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She feared his lips upon her lips would never care to feed,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And cried, “Awake, already the pale moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Washes the trees with silver, and the wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Creeps grey and chilly up this sandy dune,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The croaking frogs are out, and from the cave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nightjar shrieks, the fluttering bats repass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the brown stoat with hollow flanks creeps through the dusky grass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, though thou art a God, be not so coy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For in yon stream there is a little reed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That often whispers how a lovely boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lay with her once upon a grassy mead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who when his cruel pleasure he had done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread wings of rustling gold and soared aloft into the sun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Be not so coy, the laurel trembles still</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With great Apollo’s kisses, and the fir</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose clustering sisters fringe the seaward hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hath many a tale of that bold ravisher</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom men call Boreas, and I have seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mocking eyes of Hermes through the poplar’s silvery sheen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Even the jealous Naiads call me fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And every morn a young and ruddy swain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Woos me with apples and with locks of hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And seeks to soothe my virginal disdain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By all the gifts the gentle wood-nymphs love;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But yesterday he brought to me an iris-plumaged dove</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With little crimson feet, which with its store</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of seven spotted eggs the cruel lad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had stolen from the lofty sycamore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At daybreak, when her amorous comrade had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flown off in search of berried juniper</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which most they love; the fretful wasp, that earliest vintager</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of the blue grapes, hath not persistency</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So constant as this simple shepherd-boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my poor lips, his joyous purity</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And laughing sunny eyes might well decoy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Dryad from her oath to Artemis;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For very beautiful is he, his mouth was made to kiss,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His argent forehead, like a rising moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Over the dusky hills of meeting brows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is crescent shaped, the hot and Tyrian noon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Leads from the myrtle-grove no goodlier spouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Cytheræa, the first silky down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fringes his blushing cheeks, and his young limbs are strong and brown:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And he is rich, and fat and fleecy herds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of bleating sheep upon his meadows lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many an earthen bowl of yellow curds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is in his homestead for the thievish fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To swim and drown in, the pink clover mead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keeps its sweet store for him, and he can pipe on oaten reed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet I love him not, it was for thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I kept my love, I knew that thou would’st come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To rid me of this pallid chastity;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou fairest flower of the flowerless foam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the wide Ægean, brightest star</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ocean’s azure heavens where the mirrored planets are!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I knew that thou would’st come, for when at first</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dry wood burgeoned, and the sap of spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swelled in my green and tender bark or burst</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To myriad multitudinous blossoming</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which mocked the midnight with its mimic moons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That did not dread the dawn, and first the thrushes’ rapturous tunes</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Startled the squirrel from its granary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cuckoo flowers fringed the narrow lane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through my young leaves a sensuous ecstasy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crept like new wine, and every mossy vein</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throbbed with the fitful pulse of amorous blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wild winds of passion shook my slim stem’s maidenhood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The trooping fawns at evening came and laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their cool black noses on my lowest boughs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on my topmost branch the blackbird made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A little nest of grasses for his spouse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now and then a twittering wren would light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a thin twig which hardly bare the weight of such delight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I was the Attic shepherd’s trysting place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beneath my shadow Amaryllis lay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And round my trunk would laughing Daphnis chase</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The timorous girl, till tired out with play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She felt his hot breath stir her tangled hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turned, and looked, and fled no more from such delightful snare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then come away unto my ambuscade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where clustering woodbine weaves a canopy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For amorous pleasaunce, and the rustling shade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Paphian myrtles seems to sanctify</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dearest rites of love; there in the cool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And green recesses of its farthest depth there is pool,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The ouzel’s haunt, the wild bee’s pasturage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For round its rim great creamy lilies float</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through their flat leaves in verdant anchorage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each cup a white-sailed golden-laden boat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steered by a dragon-fly⁠—be not afraid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To leave this wan and wave-kissed shore, surely the place was made</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For lovers such as we; the Cyprian Queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One arm around her boyish paramour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strays often there at eve, and I have seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The moon strip off her misty vestiture</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For young Endymion’s eyes; be not afraid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The panther feet of Dian never tread that secret glade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay if thou will’st, back to the beating brine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Back to the boisterous billow let us go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And walk all day beneath the hyaline</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Huge vault of Neptune’s watery portico,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And watch the purple monsters of the deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sport in ungainly play, and from his lair keen Xiphias leap.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For if my mistress find me lying here</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She will not ruth or gentle pity show,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But lay her boar-spear down, and with austere</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Relentless fingers string the cornel bow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And draw the feathered notch against her breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loose the archèd cord; aye, even now upon the quest</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I hear her hurrying feet⁠—awake, awake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou laggard in love’s battle! once at least</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me drink deep of passion’s wine, and slake</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My parchèd being with the nectarous feast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which even gods affect! O come, Love, come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still we have time to reach the cavern of thine azure home.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Scarce had she spoken when the shuddering trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shook, and the leaves divided, and the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grew conscious of a God, and the grey seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crawled backward, and a long and dismal blare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blew from some tasselled horn, a sleuth-hound bayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a flame a barbèd reed flew whizzing down the glade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And where the little flowers of her breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Just brake into their milky blossoming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This murderous paramour, this unbidden guest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pierced and struck deep in horrid chambering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ploughed a bloody furrow with its dart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dug a long red road, and cleft with wingèd death her heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sobbing her life out with a bitter cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the boy’s body fell the Dryad maid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sobbing for incomplete virginity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And raptures unenjoyed, and pleasures dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the pain of things unsatisfied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the bright drops of crimson youth crept down her throbbing side.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! pitiful it was to hear her moan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And very pitiful to see her die</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere she had yielded up her sweets, or known</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The joy of passion, that dread mystery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which not to know is not to live at all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet to know is to be held in death’s most deadly thrall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But as it hapt the Queen of Cythere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who with Adonis all night long had lain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within some shepherd’s hut in Arcady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On team of silver doves and gilded wain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was journeying Paphos-ward, high up afar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From mortal ken between the mountains and the morning star,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when low down she spied the hapless pair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And heard the Oread’s faint despairing cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose cadence seemed to play upon the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As though it were a viol, hastily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She bade her pigeons fold each straining plume,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dropt to earth, and reached the strand, and saw their dolorous doom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For as a gardener turning back his head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To catch the last notes of the linnet, mows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With careless scythe too near some flower bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cuts the thorny pillar of the rose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with the flower’s loosened loneliness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strews the brown mould; or as some shepherd lad in wantonness</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Driving his little flock along the mead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Treads down two daffodils, which side by aide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have lured the lady-bird with yellow brede</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And made the gaudy moth forget its pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Treads down their brimming golden chalices</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under light feet which were not made for such rude ravages,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or as a schoolboy tired of his book</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flings himself down upon the reedy grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And plucks two water-lilies from the brook,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And for a time forgets the hour glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then wearies of their sweets, and goes his way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lets the hot sun kill them, even so these lovers lay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And Venus cried, “It is dread Artemis</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose bitter hand hath wrought this cruelty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or else that mightier maid whose care it is</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To guard her strong and stainless majesty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the hill Athenian⁠—alas!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they who loved so well unloved into Death’s house should pass.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So with soft hands she laid the boy and girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the great golden waggon tenderly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her white throat whiter than a moony pearl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Just threaded with a blue vein’s tapestry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had not yet ceased to throb, and still her breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swayed like a wind-stirred lily in ambiguous unrest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And then each pigeon spread its milky van,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The bright car soared into the dawning sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a cloud the aerial caravan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Passed over the Ægean silently,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the faint air was troubled with the song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the wan mouths that call on bleeding Thammuz all night long.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when the doves had reached their wonted goal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where the wide stair of orbèd marble dips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its snows into the sea, her fluttering soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Just shook the trembling petals of her lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And passed into the void, and Venus knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That one fair maid the less would walk amid her retinue,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And bade her servants carve a cedar chest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With all the wonder of this history,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within whose scented womb their limbs should rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where olive-trees make tender the blue sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the low hills of Paphos, and the faun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pipes in the noonday, and the nightingale sings on till dawn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor failed they to obey her hest, and ere</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The morning bee had stung the daffodil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With tiny fretful spear, or from its lair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The waking stag had leapt across the rill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And roused the ouzel, or the lizard crept</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Athwart the sunny rock, beneath the grass their bodies slept.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when day brake, within that silver shrine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fed by the flames of cressets tremulous,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Queen Venus knelt and prayed to Proserpine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That she whose beauty made Death amorous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should beg a guerdon from her pallid Lord,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let Desire pass across dread Charon’s icy ford.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="charmides-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In melancholy moonless Acheron,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Farm for the goodly earth and joyous day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where no spring ever buds, nor ripening sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Weighs down the apple trees, nor flowery May</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chequers with chestnut blooms the grassy floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where thrushes never sing, and piping linnets mate no more,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There by a dim and dark Lethæan well</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Young Charmides was lying; wearily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He plucked the blossoms from the asphodel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And with its little rifled treasury</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strewed the dull waters of the dusky stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And watched the white stars founder, and the land was like a dream,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When as he gazed into the watery glass</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And through his brown hair’s curly tangles scanned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His own wan face, a shadow seemed to pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Across the mirror, and a little hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stole into his, and warm lips timidly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brushed his pale cheeks, and breathed their secret forth into a sigh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then turned he round his weary eyes and saw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ever nigher still their faces came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nigher ever did their young mouths draw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Until they seemed one perfect rose of flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And longing arms around her neck he cast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And felt her throbbing bosom, and his breath came hot and fast,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And all his hoarded sweets were hers to kiss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all her maidenhood was his to slay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And limb to limb in long and rapturous bliss</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their passion waxed and waned⁠—O why essay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pipe again of love, too venturous reed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough, enough that Eros laughed upon that flowerless mead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Too venturous poesy, O why essay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To pipe again of passion! fold thy wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er daring Icarus and bid thy lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sleep hidden in the lyre’s silent strings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till thou hast found the old Castalian rill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or from the Lesbian waters plucked drowned Sappho’s golden quill!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Enough, enough that he whose life had been</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A fiery pulse of sin, a splendid shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could in the loveless land of Hades glean</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One scorching harvest from those fields of flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where passion walks with naked unshod feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And is not wounded⁠—ah! enough that once their lips could meet</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In that wild throb when all existences</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seemed narrowed to one single ecstasy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which dies through its own sweetness and the stress</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of too much pleasure, ere Persephone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had bade them serve her by the ebon throne</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the pale God who in the fields of Enna loosed her zone.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<section id="flowers-of-gold" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Flowers of Gold</h2>
			<section id="impressions-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Impressions</h3>
				<article id="impressions-1-1-les-silhouettes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
						<p epub:type="title">Les Silhouettes</p>
					</hgroup>
					<p>
						<span class="i1">The sea is flecked with bars of grey,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The dull dead wind is out of tune,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And like a withered leaf the moon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is blown across the stormy bay.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1">Etched clear upon the pallid sand</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Lies the black boat: a sailor boy</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Clambers aboard in careless joy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With laughing face and gleaming hand.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1">And overhead the curlews cry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Where through the dusky upland grass</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The young brown-throated reapers pass,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like silhouettes against the sky.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article id="impressions-1-2-la-fuite-de-la-lune" epub:type="z3998:poem">
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
						<p epub:type="title">La Fuite de la Lune</p>
					</hgroup>
					<p>
						<span class="i1">To outer senses there is peace,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A dreamy peace on either hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Deep silence in the shadowy land,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Deep silence where the shadows cease.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1">Save for a cry that echoes shrill</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">From some lone bird disconsolate;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A corncrake calling to its mate;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The answer from the misty hill.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1">And suddenly the moon withdraws</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Her sickle from the lightening skies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And to her sombre cavern flies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wrapped in a veil of yellow gauze.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
			</section>
			<article id="the-grave-of-keats" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Grave of Keats</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Rid of the world’s injustice, and his pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He rests at last beneath God’s veil of blue:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Taken from life when life and love were new</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The youngest of the martyrs here is lain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair as Sebastian, and as early slain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No cypress shades his grave, no funeral yew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But gentle violets weeping with the dew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weave on his bones an ever-blossoming chain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O proudest heart that broke for misery!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O sweetest lips since those of Mitylene!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O poet-painter of our English Land!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy name was writ in water⁠—it shall stand:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And tears like mine will keep thy memory green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As Isabella did her Basil-tree.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Rome.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="theocritus-a-villanelle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Theocritus</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">A Villanelle</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>O singer of Persephone!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the dim meadows desolate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost thou remember Sicily?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Still through the ivy flits the bee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where Amaryllis lies in state;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Singer of Persephone!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Simætha calls on Hecate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hears the wild dogs at the gate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost thou remember Sicily?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Still by the light and laughing sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Poor Polypheme bemoans his fate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Singer of Persephone!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And still in boyish rivalry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Young Daphnis challenges his mate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost thou remember Sicily?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Slim Lacon keeps a goat for thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For thee the jocund shepherds wait;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Singer of Persephone!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost thou remember Sicily?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-the-gold-room-a-harmony" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">In the Gold Room</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">A Harmony</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Her ivory hands on the ivory keys</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Strayed in a fitful fantasy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the silver gleam when the poplar trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rustle their pale leaves listlessly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or the drifting foam of a restless sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the waves show their teeth in the flying breeze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her gold hair fell on the wall of gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like the delicate gossamer tangles spun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the burnished disk of the marigold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or the sunflower turning to meet the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When the gloom of the dark blue night is done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the spear of the lily is aureoled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And her sweet red lips on these lips of mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Burned like the ruby fire set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the swinging lamp of a crimson shrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or the bleeding wounds of the pomegranate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or the heart of the lotus drenched and wet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the spilt-out blood of the rose-red wine.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ballade-de-marguerite" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Ballade de Marguerite</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">(Normande)</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>I am weary of lying within the chase</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the knights are meeting in market-place.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, go not thou to the red-roofed town</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest the hoofs of the war-horse tread thee down.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But I would not go where the Squires ride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would only walk by my Lady’s side.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alack! and alack! thou art overbold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Forester’s son may not eat off gold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Will she love me the less that my Father is seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each Martinmas day in a doublet green?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perchance she is sewing at tapestrie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spindle and loom are not meet for thee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, if she is working the arras bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I might ravel the threads by the fire-light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perchance she is hunting of the deer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How could you follow o’er hill and mere?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, if she is riding with the court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I might run beside her and wind the morte.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perchance she is kneeling in St. Denys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(On her soul may our Lady have gramercy!)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, if she is praying in lone chapelle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I might swing the censer and ring the bell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come in, my son, for you look sae pale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The father shall fill thee a stoup of ale.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But who are these knights in bright array?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it a pageant the rich folks play?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis the King of England from over sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who has come unto visit our fair countrie.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But why does the curfew toll sae low?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why do the mourners walk a-row?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O ’tis Hugh of Amiens my sister’s son</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who is lying stark, for his day is done.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, nay, for I see white lilies clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is no strong man who lies on the bier.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O ’tis old Dame Jeannette that kept the hall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knew she would die at the autumn fall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dame Jeannette had not that gold-brown hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old Jeannette was not a maiden fair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O ’tis none of our kith and none of our kin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Her soul may our Lady assoil from sin!)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But I hear the boy’s voice chaunting sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Elle est morte, la Marguerite.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come in, my son, and lie on the bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let the dead folk bury their dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O mother, you know I loved her true:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O mother, hath one grave room for two?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-dole-of-the-kings-daughter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Dole of the King’s Daughter</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">(Breton)</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Seven stars in the still water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And seven in the sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seven sins on the King’s daughter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Deep in her soul to lie.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Red roses are at her feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Roses are red in her red-gold hair)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And O where her bosom and girdle meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Red roses are hidden there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fair is the knight who lieth slain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Amid the rush and reed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See the lean fishes that are fain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon dead men to feed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet is the page that lieth there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Cloth of gold is goodly prey,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See the black ravens in the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Black, O black as the night are they.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What do they there so stark and dead?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(There is blood upon her hand)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why are the lilies flecked with red?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(There is blood on the river sand.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There are two that ride from the south and east,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And two from the north and west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the black raven a goodly feast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the King’s daughter rest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There is one man who loves her true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Red, O red, is the stain of gore!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He hath duggen a grave by the darksome yew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(One grave will do for four.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No moon in the still heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the black water none,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sins on her soul are seven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sin upon his is one.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="amor-intellectualis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Amor Intellectualis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Oft have we trod the vales of Castaly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And heard sweet notes of sylvan music blown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From antique reeds to common folk unknown:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And often launched our bark upon that sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which the nine Muses hold in empery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ploughed free furrows through the wave and foam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor spread reluctant sail for more safe home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till we had freighted well our argosy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of which despoilèd treasures these remain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sordello’s passion, and the honeyed line</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of young Endymion, lordly Tamburlaine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Driving his pampered jades, and more than these,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The seven-fold vision of the Florentine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And grave-browed Milton’s solemn harmonies.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="santa-decca" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Santa Decca</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Gods are dead: no longer do we bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To grey-eyed Pallas crowns of olive-leaves!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Demeter’s child no more hath tithe of sheaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the noon the careless shepherds sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Pan is dead, and all the wantoning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By secret glade and devious haunt is o’er:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Young Hylas seeks the water-springs no more;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great Pan is dead, and Mary’s son is King.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet⁠—perchance in this sea-trancèd isle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Chewing the bitter fruit of memory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some God lies hidden in the asphodel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah Love! if such there be, then it were well</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For us to fly his anger: nay, but see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The leaves are stirring: let us watch awhile.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Corfu.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="a-vision" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Vision</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Two crownèd Kings, and One that stood alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With no green weight of laurels round his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But with sad eyes as one uncomforted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wearied with man’s never-ceasing moan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For sins no bleating victim can atone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sweet long lips with tears and kisses fed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Girt was he in a garment black and red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at his feet I marked a broken stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which sent up lilies, dove-like, to his knees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now at their sight, my heart being lit with flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cried to Beatricé, “Who are these?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she made answer, knowing well each name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Æschylos first, the second Sophokles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And last (wide stream of tears!) Euripides.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="impression-de-voyage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Impression de Voyage</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The sea was sapphire coloured, and the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Burned like a heated opal through the air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We hoisted sail; the wind was blowing fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the blue lands that to the eastward lie.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the steep prow I marked with quickening eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Zakynthos, every olive grove and creek,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ithaca’s cliff, Lycaon’s snowy peak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the flower-strewn hills of Arcady.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The flapping of the sail against the mast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The ripple of the water on the side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ripple of girls’ laughter at the stern,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The only sounds:⁠—when ’gan the West to burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a red sun upon the seas to ride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I stood upon the soil of Greece at last!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Katakolo.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-grave-of-shelley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Grave of Shelley</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Like burnt-out torches by a sick man’s bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gaunt cypress-trees stand round the sun-bleached stone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Here doth the little night-owl make her throne,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the slight lizard show his jewelled head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, where the chaliced poppies flame to red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the still chamber of yon pyramid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Surely some Old-World Sphinx lurks darkly hid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim warder of this pleasaunce of the dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! sweet indeed to rest within the womb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Earth, great mother of eternal sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sweeter far for thee a restless tomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the blue cavern of an echoing deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or where the tall ships founder in the gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Against the rocks of some wave-shattered steep.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>Rome.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="by-the-arno" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">By the Arno</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The oleander on the wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grows crimson in the dawning light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though the grey shadows of the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lie yet on Florence like a pall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The dew is bright upon the hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bright the blossoms overhead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But ah! the grasshoppers have fled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little Attic song is still.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Only the leaves are gently stirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the soft breathing of the gale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in the almond-scented vale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lonely nightingale is heard.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The day will make thee silent soon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O nightingale sing on for love!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While yet upon the shadowy grove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splinter the arrows of the moon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Before across the silent lawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In sea-green vest the morning steals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And to love’s frightened eyes reveals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The long white fingers of the dawn</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Fast climbing up the eastern sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To grasp and slay the shuddering night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All careless of my heart’s delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or if the nightingale should die.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<section id="impressions-de-théâtre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Impressions de Théâtre</h2>
			<article id="fabien-dei-franchi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Fabien Dei Franchi</h3>
					<p epub:type="dedication">To My Friend Henry Irving</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The silent room, the heavy creeping shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dead that travel fast, the opening door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The murdered brother rising through the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ghost’s white fingers on thy shoulders laid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the lonely duel in the glade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The broken swords, the stifled scream, the gore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy grand revengeful eyes when all is o’er⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These things are well enough⁠—but thou wert made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For more august creation! frenzied Lear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should at thy bidding wander on the heath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the shrill fool to mock him, Romeo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For thee should lure his love, and desperate fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pluck Richard’s recreant dagger from its sheath⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou trumpet set for Shakespeare’s lips to blow!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="phèdre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Phèdre</h3>
					<p epub:type="dedication">To Sarah Bernhardt</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>How vain and dull this common world must seem</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To such a One as thou, who should’st have talked</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At Florence with Mirandola, or walked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the cool olives of the Academe:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou should’st have gathered reeds from a green stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For Goat-foot Pan’s shrill piping, and have played</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the white girls in that Phæacian glade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where grave Odysseus wakened from his dream.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! surely once some urn of Attic clay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Held thy wan dust, and thou hast come again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Back to this common world so dull and vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For thou wert weary of the sunless day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The heavy fields of scentless asphodel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The loveless lips with which men kiss in Hell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<section id="written-at-the-lyceum-theatre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Written at the Lyceum Theatre</h3>
				<article id="written-at-the-lyceum-theatre-1-portia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
						<p epub:type="title">Portia</p>
						<p epub:type="dedication">To Ellen Terry</p>
					</hgroup>
					<p>
						<span>I marvel not Bassanio was so bold</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To peril all he had upon the lead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Or that proud Aragon bent low his head</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or that Morocco’s fiery heart grew cold:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For in that gorgeous dress of beaten gold</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Which is more golden than the golden sun</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">No woman Veronesé looked upon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was half so fair as thou whom I behold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet fairer when with wisdom as your shield</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The sober-suited lawyer’s gown you donned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And would not let the laws of Venice yield</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Antonio’s heart to that accursèd Jew⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">O Portia! take my heart: it is thy due:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I think I will not quarrel with the Bond.</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article id="written-at-the-lyceum-theatre-2-queen-henrietta-maria" epub:type="z3998:poem">
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
						<p epub:type="title">Queen Henrietta Maria</p>
						<p epub:type="dedication">To Ellen Terry</p>
					</hgroup>
					<p>
						<span>In the lone tent, waiting for victory,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">She stands with eyes marred by the mists of pain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Like some wan lily overdrenched with rain:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The clamorous clang of arms, the ensanguined sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>War’s ruin, and the wreck of chivalry</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To her proud soul no common fear can bring:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Bravely she tarrieth for her Lord the King,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her soul a-flame with passionate ecstasy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O Hair of Gold! O Crimson Lips! O Face</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Made for the luring and the love of man!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With thee I do forget the toil and stress,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The loveless road that knows no resting place,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Time’s straitened pulse, the soul’s dread weariness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">My freedom, and my life republican!</span>
					</p>
				</article>
				<article id="written-at-the-lyceum-theatre-3-camma" epub:type="z3998:poem">
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h4>
						<p epub:type="title">Camma</p>
						<p epub:type="dedication">To Ellen Terry</p>
					</hgroup>
					<p>
						<span>As one who poring on a Grecian urn</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Scans the fair shapes some Attic hand hath made,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">God with slim goddess, goodly man with maid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And for their beauty’s sake is loth to turn</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And face the obvious day, must I not yearn</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For many a secret moon of indolent bliss,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When in midmost shrine of Artemis</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see thee standing, antique-limbed, and stern?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And yet⁠—methinks I’d rather see thee play</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That serpent of old Nile, whose witchery</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Made Emperors drunken⁠—come, great Egypt, shake</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Our stage with all thy mimic pageants! Nay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I am grown sick of unreal passions, make</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The world thine Actium, me thine Anthony!</span>
					</p>
				</article>
			</section>
		</section>
		<article id="panthea" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Panthea</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, let us walk from fire unto fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From passionate pain to deadlier delight⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am too young to live without desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Too young art thou to waste this summer night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Asking those idle questions which of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man sought of seer and oracle, and no reply was told.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For, sweet, to feel is better than to know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wisdom is a childless heritage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One pulse of passion⁠—youth’s first fiery glow⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are worth the hoarded proverbs of the sage:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Vex not thy soul with dead philosophy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have we not lips to kiss with, hearts to love and eyes to see!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dost thou not hear the murmuring nightingale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like water bubbling from a silver jar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So soft she sings the envious moon is pale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That high in heaven she is hung so far</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She cannot hear that love-enraptured tune⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mark how she wreathes each horn with mist, yon late and labouring moon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>White lilies, in whose cups the gold bees dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fallen snow of petals where the breeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scatters the chestnut blossom, or the gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of boyish limbs in water⁠—are not these</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enough for thee, dost thou desire more?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alas! the Gods will give nought else from their eternal store.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For our high Gods have sick and wearied grown</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of all our endless sins, our vain endeavour</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For wasted days of youth to make atone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By pain or prayer or priest, and never, never,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hearken they now to either good or ill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But send their rain upon the just and the unjust at will.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They sit at ease, our Gods they sit at ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strewing with leaves of rose their scented wine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They sleep, they sleep, beneath the rocking trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where asphodel and yellow lotus twine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mourning the old glad days before they knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What evil things the heart of man could dream, and dreaming do.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And far beneath the brazen floor they see</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like swarming flies the crowd of little men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bustle of small lives, then wearily</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Back to their lotus-haunts they turn again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kissing each others’ mouths, and mix more deep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poppy-seeded draught which brings soft purple-lidded sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There all day long the golden-vestured sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their torch-bearer, stands with his torch ablaze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, when the gaudy web of noon is spun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By its twelve maidens, through the crimson haze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fresh from Endymion’s arms comes forth the moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the immortal Gods in toils of mortal passions swoon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There walks Queen Juno through some dewy mead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her grand white feet flecked with the saffron dust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of wind-stirred lilies, while young Ganymede</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Leaps in the hot and amber-foaming must,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His curls all tossed, as when the eagle bare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The frightened boy from Ida through the blue Ionian air.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There in the green heart of some garden close</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Queen Venus with the shepherd at her side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her warm soft body like the briar rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which would be white yet blushes at its pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laughs low for love, till jealous Salmacis</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peers through the myrtle-leaves and sighs for pain of lonely bliss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There never does that dreary north-wind blow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which leaves our English forests bleak and bare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor ever falls the swift white-feathered snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor ever doth the red-toothed lightning dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To wake them in the silver-fretted night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When we lie weeping for some sweet sad sin, some dead delight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alas! they know the far Lethæan spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The violet-hidden waters well they know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where one whose feet with tired wandering</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are faint and broken may take heart and go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from those dark depths cool and crystalline</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drink, and draw balm, and sleep for sleepless souls, and anodyne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But we oppress our natures, God or Fate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is our enemy, we starve and feed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On vain repentance⁠—O we are born too late!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What balm for us in bruisèd poppy seed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who crowd into one finite pulse of time</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The joy of infinite love and the fierce pain of infinite crime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O we are wearied of this sense of guilt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wearied of pleasure’s paramour despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wearied of every temple we have built,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wearied of every right, unanswered prayer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For man is weak; God sleeps: and heaven is high:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One fiery-coloured moment: one great love; and lo! we die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! but no ferry-man with labouring pole</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nears his black shallop to the flowerless strand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No little coin of bronze can bring the soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Over Death’s river to the sunless land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Victim and wine and vow are all in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tomb is sealed; the soldiers watch; the dead rise not again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We are resolved into the supreme air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We are made one with what we touch and see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With our heart’s blood each crimson sun is fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With our young lives each spring-impassioned tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flames into green, the wildest beasts that range</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The moor our kinsmen are, all life is one, and all is change.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With beat of systole and of diastole</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One grand great life throbs through earth’s giant heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mighty waves of single Being roll</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From nerveless germ to man, for we are part</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of every rock and bird and beast and hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One with the things that prey on us, and one with what we kill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From lower cells of waking life we pass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To full perfection; thus the world grows old:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We who are godlike now were once a mass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of quivering purple flecked with bars of gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unsentient or of joy or misery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tossed in terrible tangles of some wild and wind-swept sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This hot hard flame with which our bodies burn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will make some meadow blaze with daffodil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ay! and those argent breasts of thine will turn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To water-lilies; the brown fields men till</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will be more fruitful for our love to-night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nothing is lost in nature, all things live in Death’s despite.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The boy’s first kiss, the hyacinth’s first bell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The man’s last passion, and the last red spear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That from the lily leaps, the asphodel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which will not let its blossoms blow for fear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of too much beauty, and the timid shame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the young bridegroom at his lover’s eyes⁠—these with the same</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One sacrament are consecrate, the earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Not we alone hath passions hymeneal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The yellow buttercups that shake for mirth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At daybreak know a pleasure not less real</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than we do, when in some fresh-blossoming wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We draw the spring into our hearts, and feel that life is good.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So when men bury us beneath the yew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy crimson-stainèd mouth a rose will be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thy soft eyes lush bluebells dimmed with dew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And when the white narcissus wantonly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kisses the wind its playmate some faint joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will thrill our dust, and we will be again fond maid and boy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thus without life’s conscious torturing pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In some sweet flower we will feel the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from the linnet’s throat will sing again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And as two gorgeous-mailèd snakes will run</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over our graves, or as two tigers creep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the hot jungle where the yellow-eyed huge lions sleep</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And give them battle! How my heart leaps up</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To think of that grand living after death</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In beast and bird and flower, when this cup,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Being filled too full of spirit, bursts for breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with the pale leaves of some autumn day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soul earth’s earliest conqueror becomes earth’s last great prey.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O think of it! We shall inform ourselves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into all sensuous life, the goat-foot Faun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Centaur, or the merry bright-eyed Elves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That leave their dancing rings to spite the dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the meadows, shall not be more near</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than you and I to nature’s mysteries, for we shall hear</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The thrush’s heart beat, and the daisies grow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the wan snowdrop sighing for the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On sunless days in winter, we shall know</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By whom the silver gossamer is spun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who paints the diapered fritillaries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On what wide wings from shivering pine to pine the eagle flies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ay! had we never loved at all, who knows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If yonder daffodil had lured the bee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into its gilded womb, or any rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had hung with crimson lamps its little tree!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Methinks no leaf would ever bud in spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But for the lovers’ lips that kiss, the poets’ lips that sing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Is the light vanished from our golden sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or is this dædal-fashioned earth less fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That we are nature’s heritors, and one</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With every pulse of life that beats the air?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rather new suns across the sky shall pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New splendour come unto the flower, new glory to the grass.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And we two lovers shall not sit afar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Critics of nature, but the joyous sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall be our raiment, and the bearded star</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shoot arrows at our pleasure! We shall be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Part of the mighty universal whole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And through all æons mix and mingle with the Kosmic Soul!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We shall be notes in that great Symphony</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose cadence circles through the rhythmic spheres,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the live World’s throbbing heart shall be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One with our heart, the stealthy creeping years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have lost their terrors now, we shall not die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Universe itself shall be our Immortality!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<section id="the-fourth-movement" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Fourth Movement</h2>
			<article id="impression-le-réveillon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Impression</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">Le Réveillon</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The sky is laced with fitful red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The circling mists and shadows flee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dawn is rising from the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a white lady from her bed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">And jagged brazen arrows fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Athwart the feathers of the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a long wave of yellow light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breaks silently on tower and hall,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">And spreading wide across the wold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wakes into flight some fluttering bird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all the chestnut tops are stirred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the branches streaked with gold.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-verona" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At Verona</h3>
				<p>
					<span>How steep the stairs within Kings’ houses are</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For exile-wearied feet as mine to tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And O how salt and bitter is the bread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which falls from this Hound’s table⁠—better far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I had died in the red ways of war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or that the gate of Florence bare my head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than to live thus, by all things comraded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which seek the essence of my soul to mar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Curse God and die: what better hope than this?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He hath forgotten thee in all the bliss</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of his gold city, and eternal day”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay peace: behind my prison’s blinded bars</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I do possess what none can take away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My love, and all the glory of the stars.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="apologia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Apologia</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Is it thy will that I should wax and wane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Barter my cloth of gold for hodden grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at thy pleasure weave that web of pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose brightest threads are each a wasted day?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Is it thy will⁠—Love that I love so well⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That my Soul’s House should be a tortured spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein, like evil paramours, must dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The quenchless flame, the worm that dieth not?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, if it be thy will I shall endure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sell ambition at the common mart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let dull failure be my vestiture,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sorrow dig its grave within my heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perchance it may be better so⁠—at least</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I have not made my heart a heart of stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor starved my boyhood of its goodly feast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor walked where Beauty is a thing unknown.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Many a man hath done so; sought to fence</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In straitened bonds the soul that should be free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trodden the dusty road of common sense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While all the forest sang of liberty,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not marking how the spotted hawk in flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Passed on wide pinion through the lofty air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To where some steep untrodden mountain height</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Caught the last tresses of the Sun God’s hair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or how the little flower he trod upon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The daisy, that white-feathered shield of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Followed with wistful eyes the wandering sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Content if once its leaves were aureoled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But surely it is something to have been</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The best belovèd for a little while,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have walked hand in hand with Love, and seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His purple wings flit once across thy smile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ay! though the gorgèd asp of passion feed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On my boy’s heart, yet have I burst the bars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood face to face with Beauty, known indeed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Love which moves the Sun and all the stars!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="quia-multum-amavi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Quia Multum Amavi</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Heart, I think the young impassioned priest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When first he takes from out the hidden shrine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His God imprisoned in the Eucharist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And eats the bread, and drinks the dreadful wine,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Feels not such awful wonder as I felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When first my smitten eyes beat full on thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all night long before thy feet I knelt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till thou wert wearied of Idolatry.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! hadst thou liked me less and loved me more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through all those summer days of joy and rain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had not now been sorrow’s heritor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or stood a lackey in the House of Pain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet, though remorse, youth’s white-faced seneschal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tread on my heels with all his retinue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am most glad I loved thee⁠—think of all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The suns that go to make one speedwell blue!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="silentium-amoris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Silentium Amoris</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As often-times the too resplendent sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hurries the pallid and reluctant moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back to her sombre cave, ere she hath won</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A single ballad from the nightingale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So doth thy Beauty make my lips to fail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all my sweetest singing out of tune.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And as at dawn across the level mead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On wings impetuous some wind will come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with its too harsh kisses break the reed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which was its only instrument of song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So my too stormy passions work me wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for excess of Love my Love is dumb.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But surely unto Thee mine eyes did show</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why I am silent, and my lute unstrung;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Else it were better we should part, and go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou to some lips of sweeter melody,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I to nurse the barren memory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of unkissed kisses, and songs never sung.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="her-voice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Her Voice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The wild bee reels from bough to bough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With his furry coat and his gauzy wing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now in a lily-cup, and now</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Setting a jacinth bell a-swing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In his wandering;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sit closer love: it was here I trow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">I made that vow,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Swore that two lives should be like one</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As long as the sea-gull loved the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As long as the sunflower sought the sun⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It shall be, I said, for eternity</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">’Twixt you and me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear friend, those times are over and done;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Love’s web is spun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Look upward where the poplar trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sway and sway in the summer air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here in the valley never a breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Scatters the thistledown, but there</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Great winds blow fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the mighty murmuring mystical seas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And the wave-lashed leas.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Look upward where the white gull screams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What does it see that we do not see?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is that a star? or the lamp that gleams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On some outward voyaging argosy⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Ah! can it be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have lived our lives in a land of dreams!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">How sad it seems.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet, there is nothing left to say</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But this, that love is never lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keen winter stabs the breasts of May</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose crimson roses burst his frost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Ships tempest-tossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will find a harbour in some bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And so we may.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And there is nothing left to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But to kiss once again, and part,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, there is nothing we should rue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I have my beauty⁠—you your Art,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Nay, do not start,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One world was not enough for two</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Like me and you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="my-voice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">My Voice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Within this restless, hurried, modern world</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We took our hearts’ full pleasure⁠—You and I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now the white sails of our ship are furled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And spent the lading of our argosy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wherefore my cheeks before their time are wan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For very weeping is my gladness fled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sorrow has paled my young mouth’s vermilion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Ruin draws the curtains of my bed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But all this crowded life has been to thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No more than lyre, or lute, or subtle spell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of viols, or the music of the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That sleeps, a mimic echo, in the shell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="taedium-vitae" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Tædium Vitæ</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To stab my youth with desperate knives, to wear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This paltry age’s gaudy livery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To let each base hand filch my treasury,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To mesh my soul within a woman’s hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And be mere Fortune’s lackeyed groom⁠—I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love it not! these things are less to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than the thin foam that frets upon the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Less than the thistledown of summer air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which hath no seed: better to stand aloof</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far from these slanderous fools who mock my life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knowing me not, better the lowliest roof</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fit for the meanest hind to sojourn in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than to go back to that hoarse cave of strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where my white soul first kissed the mouth of sin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<article id="humanitad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Humanitad</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It is full winter now: the trees are bare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Save where the cattle huddle from the cold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath the pine, for it doth never wear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The autumn’s gaudy livery whose gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her jealous brother pilfers, but is true</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the green doublet; bitter is the wind, as though it blew</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From Saturn’s cave; a few thin wisps of hay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lie on the sharp black hedges, where the wain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dragged the sweet pillage of a summer’s day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the low meadows up the narrow lane;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the half-thawed snow the bleating sheep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Press close against the hurdles, and the shivering house-dogs creep</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From the shut stable to the frozen stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And back again disconsolate, and miss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bawling shepherds and the noisy team;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And overhead in circling listlessness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cawing rooks whirl round the frosted stack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or crowd the dripping boughs; and in the fen the ice-pools crack</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where the gaunt bittern stalks among the reeds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And flaps his wings, and stretches back his neck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hoots to see the moon; across the meads</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Limps the poor frightened hare, a little speck;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a stray seamew with its fretful cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flits like a sudden drift of snow against the dull grey sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Full winter: and the lusty goodman brings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His load of faggots from the chilly byre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stamps his feet upon the hearth, and flings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sappy billets on the waning fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And laughs to see the sudden lightening scare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His children at their play, and yet⁠—the Spring is in the air;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Already the slim crocus stirs the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And soon yon blanchèd fields will bloom again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With nodding cowslips for some lad to mow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For with the first warm kisses of the rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The winter’s icy sorrow breaks to tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the brown thrushes mate, and with bright eyes the rabbit peers</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From the dark warren where the fir-cones lie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And treads one snowdrop under foot, and runs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the mossy knoll, and blackbirds fly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across our path at evening, and the suns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stay longer with us; ah! how good to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grass-girdled spring in all her joy of laughing greenery</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dance through the hedges till the early rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(That sweet repentance of the thorny briar!)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Burst from its sheathèd emerald and disclose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The little quivering disk of golden fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which the bees know so well, for with it come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pale boy’s-love, sops-in-wine, and daffadillies all in bloom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then up and down the field the sower goes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While close behind the laughing younker scares</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With shrilly whoop the black and thievish crows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And then the chestnut-tree its glory wears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on the grass the creamy blossom falls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In odorous excess, and faint half-whispered madrigals</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Steal from the bluebells’ nodding carillons</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each breezy morn, and then white jessamine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That star of its own heaven, snap-dragons</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With lolling crimson tongues, and eglantine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In dusty velvets clad usurp the bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And woodland empery, and when the lingering rose hath shed</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Red leaf by leaf its folded panoply,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And pansies closed their purple-lidded eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chrysanthemums from gilded argosy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unload their gaudy scentless merchandise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And violets getting overbold withdraw</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From their shy nooks, and scarlet berries dot the leafless haw.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O happy field! and O thrice happy tree!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Soon will your queen in daisy-flowered smock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And crown of flower-de-luce trip down the lea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Soon will the lazy shepherds drive their flock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Back to the pasture by the pool, and soon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the green leaves will float the hum of murmuring bees at noon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soon will the glade be bright with bellamour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The flower which wantons love, and those sweet nuns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Vale-lilies in their snowy vestiture</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will tell their beaded pearls, and carnations</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With mitred dusky leaves will scent the wind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And straggling traveller’s-joy each hedge with yellow stars will bind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dear Bride of Nature and most bounteous spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That canst give increase to the sweet-breath’d kine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to the kid its little horns, and bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The soft and silky blossoms to the vine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where is that old nepenthe which of yore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man got from poppy root and glossy-berried mandragore!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There was a time when any common bird</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Could make me sing in unison, a time</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When all the strings of boyish life were stirred</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To quick response or more melodious rhyme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By every forest idyll;⁠—do I change?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or rather doth some evil thing through thy fair pleasaunce range?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, nay, thou art the same: ’tis I who seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To vex with sighs thy simple solitude,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And because fruitless tears bedew my cheek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would have thee weep with me in brotherhood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fool! shall each wronged and restless spirit dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To taint such wine with the salt poison of his own despair!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou art the same: ’tis I whose wretched soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Takes discontent to be its paramour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gives its kingdom to the rude control</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of what should be its servitor⁠—for sure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wisdom is somewhere, though the stormy sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Contain it not, and the huge deep answer “ ’Tis not in me.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To burn with one clear flame, to stand erect</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In natural honour, not to bend the knee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In profitless prostrations whose effect</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is by itself condemned, what alchemy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can teach me this? what herb Medea brewed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will bring the unexultant peace of essence not subdued?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The minor chord which ends the harmony,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And for its answering brother waits in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sobbing for incompleted melody,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dies a swan’s death; but I the heir of pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A silent Memnon with blank lidless eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wait for the light and music of those suns which never rise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The quenched-out torch, the lonely cypress-gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The little dust stored in the narrow urn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gentle <i xml:lang="grc">ΧΑΙΡΕ</i> of the Attic tomb⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were not these better far than to return</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To my old fitful restless malady,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or spend my days within the voiceless cave of misery?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nay! for perchance that poppy-crownèd god</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is like the watcher by a sick man’s bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who talks of sleep but gives it not; his rod</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath lost its virtue, and, when all is said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Death is too rude, too obvious a key</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To solve one single secret in a life’s philosophy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Love! that noble madness, whose august</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And inextinguishable might can slay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soul with honeyed drugs⁠—alas! I must</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From such sweet ruin play the runaway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Although too constant memory never can</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forget the archèd splendour of those brows Olympian</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Which for a little season made my youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So soft a swoon of exquisite indolence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That all the chiding of more prudent Truth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seemed the thin voice of jealousy⁠—O Hence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou huntress deadlier than Artemis!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go seek some other quarry! for of thy too perilous bliss</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My lips have drunk enough⁠—no more, no more⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though Love himself should turn his gilded prow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Back to the troubled waters of this shore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where I am wrecked and stranded, even now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The chariot wheels of passion sweep too near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hence! Hence! I pass unto a life more barren, more austere.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>More barren⁠—ay, those arms will never lean</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Down through the trellised vines and draw my soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In sweet reluctance through the tangled green;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some other head must wear that aureole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I am hers who loves not any man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose white and stainless bosom bears the sign Gorgonian.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let Venus go and chuck her dainty page,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And kiss his mouth, and toss his curly hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With net and spear and hunting equipage</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let young Adonis to his tryst repair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But me her fond and subtle-fashioned spell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Delights no more, though I could win her dearest citadel.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ay, though I were that laughing shepherd boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who from Mount Ida saw the little cloud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pass over Tenedos and lofty Troy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And knew the coming of the Queen, and bowed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In wonder at her feet, not for the sake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a new Helen would I bid her hand the apple take.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then rise supreme Athena argent-limbed!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And, if my lips be music-less, inspire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At least my life: was not thy glory hymned</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By One who gave to thee his sword and lyre</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like Æschylos at well-fought Marathon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And died to show that Milton’s England still could bear a son!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And yet I cannot tread the Portico</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And live without desire, fear and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or nurture that wise calm which long ago</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The grave Athenian master taught to men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Self-poised, self-centred, and self-comforted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To watch the world’s vain phantasies go by with unbowed head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alas! that serene brow, those eloquent lips,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Those eyes that mirrored all eternity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rest in their own Colonos, an eclipse</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath come on Wisdom, and Mnemosyne</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is childless; in the night which she had made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For lofty secure flight Athena’s owl itself hath strayed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nor much with Science do I care to climb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Although by strange and subtle witchery</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She drew the moon from heaven: the Muse of Time</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unrolls her gorgeous-coloured tapestry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To no less eager eyes; often indeed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the great epic of Polymnia’s scroll I love to read</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How Asia sent her myriad hosts to war</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Against a little town, and panoplied</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In gilded mail with jewelled scimitar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">White-shielded, purple-crested, rode the Mede</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Between the waving poplars and the sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which men call Artemisium, till he saw Thermopylæ</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Its steep ravine spanned by a narrow wall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And on the nearer side a little brood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of careless lions holding festival!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And stood amazèd at such hardihood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pitched his tent upon the reedy shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stayed two days to wonder, and then crept at midnight o’er</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some unfrequented height, and coming down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The autumn forests treacherously slew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What Sparta held most dear and was the crown</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of far Eurotas, and passed on, nor knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How God had staked an evil net for him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the small bay at Salamis⁠—and yet, the page grows dim,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Its cadenced Greek delights me not, I feel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With such a goodly time too out of tune</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To love it much: for like the Dial’s wheel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That from its blinded darkness strikes the noon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet never sees the sun, so do my eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Restlessly follow that which from my cheated vision flies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O for one grand unselfish simple life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To teach us what is Wisdom! speak ye hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of lone Helvellyn, for this note of strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shunned your untroubled crags and crystal rills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where is that Spirit which living blamelessly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet dared to kiss the smitten mouth of his own century!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Speak ye Rydalian laurels! where is He</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose gentle head ye sheltered, that pure soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose gracious days of uncrowned majesty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through lowliest conduct touched the lofty goal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where love and duty mingle! Him at least</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The most high Laws were glad of, He had sat at Wisdom’s feast,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But we are Learning’s changelings, know by rote</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The clarion watchword of each Grecian school</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And follow none, the flawless sword which smote</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The pagan Hydra is an effete tool</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which we ourselves have blunted, what man now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall scale the august ancient heights and to old Reverence bow?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One such indeed I saw, but, Ichabod!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gone is that last dear son of Italy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who being man died for the sake of God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And whose unrisen bones sleep peacefully,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O guard him, guard him well, my Giotto’s tower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou marble lily of the lily town! let not the lour</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of the rude tempest vex his slumber, or</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Arno with its tawny troubled gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er-leap its marge, no mightier conqueror</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Clomb the high Capitol in the days of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Rome was indeed Rome, for Liberty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walked like a bride beside him, at which sight pale Mystery</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fled shrieking to her farthest sombrest cell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With an old man who grabbled rusty keys,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fled shuddering, for that immemorial knell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With which oblivion buries dynasties</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swept like a wounded eagle on the blast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As to the holy heart of Rome the great triumvir passed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He knew the holiest heart and heights of Rome,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He drave the base wolf from the lion’s lair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now lies dead by that empyreal dome</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which overtops Valdarno hung in air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By Brunelleschi⁠—O Melpomene</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breathe through thy melancholy pipe thy sweetest threnody!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Breathe through the tragic stops such melodies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That Joy’s self may grow jealous, and the Nine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forget awhile their discreet emperies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mourning for him who on Rome’s lordliest shrine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lit for men’s lives the light of Marathon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bare to sun-forgotten fields the fire of the sun!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O guard him, guard him well, my Giotto’s tower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let some young Florentine each eventide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring coronals of that enchanted flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which the dim woods of Vallombrosa hide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And deck the marble tomb wherein he lies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose soul is as some mighty orb unseen of mortal eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some mighty orb whose cycled wanderings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Being tempest-driven to the farthest rim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Chaos meets Creation and the wings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the eternal chanting Cherubim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are pavilioned on Nothing, passed away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into a moonless void⁠—and yet, though he is dust and clay,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He is not dead, the immemorial Fates</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Forbid it, and the closing shears refrain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lift up your heads ye everlasting gates!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye argent clarions, sound a loftier strain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the vile thing he hated lurks within</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its sombre house, alone with God and memories of sin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Still what avails it that she sought her cave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That murderous mother of red harlotries?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At Munich on the marble architrave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Grecian boys die smiling, but the seas</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which wash Ægina fret in loneliness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not mirroring their beauty; so our lives grow colourless</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For lack of our ideals, if one star</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flame torch-like in the heavens the unjust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swift daylight kills it, and no trump of war</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Can wake to passionate voice the silent dust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which was Mazzini once! rich Niobe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For all her stony sorrows hath her sons; but Italy!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What Easter Day shall make her children rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who were not Gods yet suffered? what sure feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall find their grave-clothes folded? what clear eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall see them bodily? O it were meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To roll the stone from off the sepulchre</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And kiss the bleeding roses of their wounds, in love of Her,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our Italy! our mother visible!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Most blessed among nations and most sad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For whose dear sake the young Calabrian fell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That day at Aspromonte and was glad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That in an age when God was bought and sold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One man could die for Liberty! but we, burnt out and cold,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>See Honour smitten on the cheek and gyves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bind the sweet feet of Mercy: Poverty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Creeps through our sunless lanes and with sharp knives</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cuts the warm throats of children stealthily,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no word said:⁠—O we are wretched men</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unworthy of our great inheritance! where is the pen</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of austere Milton? where the mighty sword</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which slew its master righteously? the years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have lost their ancient leader, and no word</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Breaks from the voiceless tripod on our ears:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While as a ruined mother in some spasm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bears a base child and loathes it, so our best enthusiasm</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Genders unlawful children, Anarchy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Freedom’s own Judas, the vile prodigal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Licence who steals the gold of Liberty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And yet has nothing, Ignorance the real</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One Fraticide since Cain, Envy the asp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That stings itself to anguish, Avarice whose palsied grasp</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Is in its extent stiffened, moneyed Greed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For whose dull appetite men waste away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amid the whirr of wheels and are the seed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of things which slay their sower, these each day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sees rife in England, and the gentle feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Beauty tread no more the stones of each unlovely street.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What even Cromwell spared is desecrated</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By weed and worm, left to the stormy play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of wind and beating snow, or renovated</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By more destructful hands: Time’s worst decay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will wreathe its ruins with some loveliness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But these new Vandals can but make a rainproof barrenness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where is that Art which bade the Angels sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through Lincoln’s lofty choir, till the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems from such marble harmonies to ring</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With sweeter song than common lips can dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To draw from actual reed? ah! where is now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cunning hand which made the flowering hawthorn branches bow</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For Southwell’s arch, and carved the House of One</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who loved the lilies of the field with all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our dearest English flowers? the same sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rises for us: the seasons natural</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weave the same tapestry of green and grey:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The unchanged hills are with us: but that Spirit hath passed away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And yet perchance it may be better so,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For Tyranny is an incestuous Queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Murder her brother is her bedfellow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the Plague chambers with her: in obscene</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bloody paths her treacherous feet are set;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Better the empty desert and a soul inviolate!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For gentle brotherhood, the harmony</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of living in the healthful air, the swift</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clean beauty of strong limbs when men are free</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And women chaste, these are the things which lift</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our souls up more than even Agnolo’s</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gaunt blinded Sibyl poring o’er the scroll of human woes,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Or Titian’s little maiden on the stair</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">White as her own sweet lily and as tall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or Mona Lisa smiling through her hair⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah! somehow life is bigger after all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than any painted angel could we see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The God that is within us! The old Greek serenity</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Which curbs the passion of that level line</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of marble youths, who with untroubled eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And chastened limbs ride round Athena’s shrine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And mirror her divine economies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And balanced symmetry of what in man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would else wage ceaseless warfare⁠—this at least within the span</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Between our mother’s kisses and the grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Might so inform our lives, that we could win</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such mighty empires that from her cave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Temptation would grow hoarse, and pallid Sin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would walk ashamed of his adulteries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Passion creep from out the House of Lust with startled eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To make the body and the spirit one</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With all right things, till no thing live in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From morn to noon, but in sweet unison</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With every pulse of flesh and throb of brain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soul in flawless essence high enthroned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against all outer vain attack invincibly bastioned,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mark with serene impartiality</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The strife of things, and yet be comforted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knowing that by the chain causality</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All separate existences are wed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into one supreme whole, whose utterance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is joy, or holier praise! ah! surely this were governance</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of Life in most august omnipresence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through which the rational intellect would find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In passion its expression, and mere sense,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ignoble else, lend fire to the mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And being joined with it in harmony</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More mystical than that which binds the stars planetary,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Strike from their several tones one octave chord</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose cadence being measureless would fly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through all the circling spheres, then to its Lord</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Return refreshed with its new empery</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And more exultant power⁠—this indeed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could we but reach it were to find the last, the perfect creed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! it was easy when the world was young</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To keep one’s life free and inviolate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From our sad lips another song is rung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By our own hands our heads are desecrate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wanderers in drear exile, and dispossessed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of what should be our own, we can but feed on wild unrest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Somehow the grace, the bloom of things has flown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And of all men we are most wretched who</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must live each other’s lives and not our own</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For very pity’s sake and then undo</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All that we lived for⁠—it was otherwise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When soul and body seemed to blend in mystic symphonies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But we have left those gentle haunts to pass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With weary feet to the new Calvary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where we behold, as one who in a glass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sees his own face, self-slain Humanity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the dumb reproach of that sad gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Learn what an awful phantom the red hand of man can raise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O smitten mouth! O forehead crowned with thorn!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O chalice of all common miseries!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou for our sakes that loved thee not hast borne</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An agony of endless centuries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we were vain and ignorant nor knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That when we stabbed thy heart it was our own real hearts we slew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Being ourselves the sowers and the seeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The night that covers and the lights that fade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The spear that pierces and the side that bleeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The lips betraying and the life betrayed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The deep hath calm: the moon hath rest: but we</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lords of the natural world are yet our own dread enemy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Is this the end of all that primal force</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which, in its changes being still the same,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From eyeless Chaos cleft its upward course,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through ravenous seas and whirling rocks and flame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the suns met in heaven and began</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their cycles, and the morning stars sang, and the Word was Man!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, nay, we are but crucified, and though</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bloody sweat falls from our brows like rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loosen the nails⁠—we shall come down I know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Staunch the red wounds⁠—we shall be whole again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No need have we of hyssop-laden rod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That which is purely human, that is godlike, that is God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="flower-of-love" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Flower of Love</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">
					<i xml:lang="grc">Γλυκυιιικροϛ Σροσ</i>
				</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Sweet, I blame you not, for mine the fault</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">was, had I not been made of common clay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I had climbed the higher heights unclimbed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">yet, seen the fuller air, the larger day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From the wildness of my wasted passion I had</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">struck a better, clearer song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lit some lighter light of freer freedom, battled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">with some Hydra-headed wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Had my lips been smitten into music by the</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">kisses that but made them bleed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You had walked with Bice and the angels on</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">that verdant and enamelled mead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I had trod the road which Dante treading saw</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">the suns of seven circles shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ay! perchance had seen the heavens opening,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">as they opened to the Florentine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the mighty nations would have crowned</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">me, who am crownless now and without name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some orient dawn had found me kneeling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">on the threshold of the House of Fame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I had sat within that marble circle where the</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">oldest bard is as the young,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the pipe is ever dropping honey, and the</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">lyre’s strings are ever strung.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Keats had lifted up his hymeneal curls from out</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">the poppy-seeded wine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With ambrosial mouth had kissed my forehead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">clasped the hand of noble love in mine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And at springtide, when the apple-blossoms brush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">the burnished bosom of the dove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two young lovers lying in an orchard would</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">have read the story of our love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Would have read the legend of my passion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">known the bitter secret of my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kissed as we have kissed, but never parted as</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">we two are fated now to part.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For the crimson flower of our life is eaten by</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">the cankerworm of truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no hand can gather up the fallen withered</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">petals of the rose of youth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet I am not sorry that I loved you⁠—ah! what</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">else had I a boy to do⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the hungry teeth of time devour, and the</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">silent-footed years pursue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rudderless, we drift athwart a tempest, and</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">when once the storm of youth is past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without lyre, without lute or chorus, Death</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">the silent pilot comes at last.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And within the grave there is no pleasure, for</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">the blindworm battens on the root,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Desire shudders into ashes, and the tree of</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Passion bears no fruit.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! what else had I to do but love you, God’s</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">own mother was less dear to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And less dear the Cytheræan rising like an</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">argent lily from the sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have made my choice, have lived my poems,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">and, though youth is gone in wasted days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have found the lover’s crown of myrtle better</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">than the poet’s crown of bays.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
