<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Ravenna</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="ravenna" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ravenna</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">To My Friend George Fleming, Author of “The Nile Novel” and “Mirage”</p>
			</header>
			<section id="ravenna-1">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A year ago I breathed the Italian air⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet, methinks this northern Spring is fair⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These fields made golden with the flower of March,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The throstle singing on the feathered larch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cawing rooks, the wood-doves fluttering by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little clouds that race across the sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fair the violet’s gentle drooping head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The primrose, pale for love uncomforted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rose that burgeons on the climbing briar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crocus-bed, (that seems a moon of fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round-girdled with a purple marriage-ring);</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the flowers of our English Spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fond snowdrops, and the bright-starred daffodil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up starts the lark beside the murmuring mill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And breaks the gossamer-threads of early dew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And down the river, like a flame of blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keen as an arrow flies the water-king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the brown linnets in the greenwood sing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A year ago!⁠—it seems a little time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since last I saw that lordly southern clime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where flower and fruit to purple radiance blow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like bright lamps the fabled apples glow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full Spring it was⁠—and by rich flowering vines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dark olive-groves and noble forest-pines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I rode at will; the moist glad air was sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The white road rang beneath my horse’s feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And musing on Ravenna’s ancient name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I watched the day till, marked with wounds of flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The turquoise sky to burnished gold was turned.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O how my heart with boyish passion burned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When far away across the sedge and mere</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw that Holy City rising clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crowned with her crown of towers!⁠—On and on</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I galloped, racing with the setting sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ere the crimson after-glow was passed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stood within Ravenna’s walls at last!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="ravenna-2">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">How strangely still! no sound of life or joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Startles the air; no laughing shepherd-boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pipes on his reed, nor ever through the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comes the glad sound of children at their play:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O sad, and sweet, and silent! surely here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man might dwell apart from troublous fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watching the tide of seasons as they flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From amorous Spring to Winter’s rain and snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And have no thought of sorrow;⁠—here, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are Lethe’s waters, and that fatal weed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which makes a man forget his fatherland.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Ay! amid lotus-meadows dost thou stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Proserpine, with poppy-laden head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Guarding the holy ashes of the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For though thy brood of warrior sons hath ceased,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy noble dead are with thee!⁠—they at least</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are faithful to thine honour:⁠—guard them well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O childless city! for a mighty spell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wake men’s hearts to dreams of things sublime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are the lone tombs where rest the Great of Time.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="ravenna-3">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Yon lonely pillar, rising on the plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marks where the bravest knight of France was slain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Prince of chivalry, the Lord of war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gaston de Foix: for some untimely star</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Led him against thy city, and he fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As falls some forest-lion fighting well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taken from life while life and love were new,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lies beneath God’s seamless veil of blue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tall lance-like reeds wave sadly o’er his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And oleanders bloom to deeper red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where his bright youth flowed crimson on the ground.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Look farther north unto that broken mound⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There, prisoned now within a lordly tomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raised by a daughter’s hand, in lonely gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Huge-limbed Theodoric, the Gothic king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleeps after all his weary conquering.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time hath not spared his ruin⁠—wind and rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have broken down his stronghold; and again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We see that Death is mighty lord of all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And king and clown to ashen dust must fall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Mighty indeed <i>their</i> glory! yet to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barbaric king, or knight of chivalry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or the great queen herself, were poor and vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beside the grave where Dante rests from pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His gilded shrine lies open to the air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cunning sculptor’s hands have carven there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The calm white brow, as calm as earliest morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The eyes that flashed with passionate love and scorn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lips that sang of Heaven and of Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The almond-face which Giotto drew so well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weary face of Dante;⁠—to this day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here in his place of resting, far away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Arno’s yellow waters, rushing down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the wide bridges of that fairy town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the tall tower of Giotto seems to rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A marble lily under sapphire skies!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! my Dante! thou hast known the pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of meaner lives⁠—the exile’s galling chain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How steep the stairs within kings’ houses are,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the petty miseries which mar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man’s nobler nature with the sense of wrong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet this dull world is grateful for thy song;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our nations do thee homage⁠—even she,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That cruel queen of vine-clad Tuscany,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who bound with crown of thorns thy living brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hath decked thine empty tomb with laurels now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And begs in vain the ashes of her son.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O mightiest exile! all thy grief is done:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy soul walks now beside thy Beatrice;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ravenna guards thine ashes: sleep in peace.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="ravenna-4">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">How lone this palace is; how grey the walls!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No minstrel now wakes echoes in these halls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The broken chain lies rusting on the door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And noisome weeds have split the marble floor:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here lurks the snake, and here the lizards run</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the stone lions blinking in the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Byron dwelt here in love and revelry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For two long years⁠—a second Anthony,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who of the world another Actium made!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet suffered not his royal soul to fade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or lyre to break, or lance to grow less keen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Neath any wiles of an Egyptian queen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For from the East there came a mighty cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Greece stood up to fight for Liberty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And called him from Ravenna: never knight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rode forth more nobly to wild scenes of fight!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None fell more bravely on ensanguined field,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Borne like a Spartan back upon his shield!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Hellas! Hellas! in thine hour of pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy day of might, remember him who died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wrest from off thy limbs the trammelling chain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Salamis! O lone Plataean plain!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O tossing waves of wild Euboean sea!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O wind-swept heights of lone Thermopylae!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He loved you well⁠—ay, not alone in word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who freely gave to thee his lyre and sword,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Aeschylos at well-fought Marathon:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">And England, too, shall glory in her son,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her warrior-poet, first in song and fight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer now shall Slander’s venomed spite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crawl like a snake across his perfect name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or mar the lordly scutcheon of his fame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">For as the olive-garland of the race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which lights with joy each eager runner’s face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the red cross which saveth men in war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a flame-bearded beacon seen from far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By mariners upon a storm-tossed sea⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such was his love for Greece and Liberty!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Byron, thy crowns are ever fresh and green:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red leaves of rose from Sapphic Mitylene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall bind thy brows; the myrtle blooms for thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hidden glades by lonely Castaly;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The laurels wait thy coming: all are thine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And round thy head one perfect wreath will twine.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="ravenna-5">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The pine-tops rocked before the evening breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the hoarse murmur of the wintry seas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the tall stems were streaked with amber bright;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wandered through the wood in wild delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some startled bird, with fluttering wings and fleet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made snow of all the blossoms; at my feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like silver crowns, the pale narcissi lay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And small birds sang on every twining spray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O waving trees, O forest liberty!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within your haunts at least a man is free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And half forgets the weary world of strife:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blood flows hotter, and a sense of life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wakes i’ the quickening veins, while once again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The woods are filled with gods we fancied slain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long time I watched, and surely hoped to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some goat-foot Pan make merry minstrelsy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid the reeds! some startled Dryad-maid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In girlish flight! or lurking in the glade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soft brown limbs, the wanton treacherous face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of woodland god! Queen Dian in the chase,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>White-limbed and terrible, with look of pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leash of boar-hounds leaping at her side!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or Hylas mirrored in the perfect stream.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O idle heart! O fond Hellenic dream!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere long, with melancholy rise and swell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The evening chimes, the convent’s vesper bell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Struck on mine ears amid the amorous flowers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! alas! these sweet and honied hours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had whelmed my heart like some encroaching sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drowned all thoughts of black Gethsemane.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="ravenna-6">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O lone Ravenna! many a tale is told</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of thy great glories in the days of old:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two thousand years have passed since thou didst see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caesar ride forth to royal victory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mighty thy name when Rome’s lean eagles flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Britain’s isles to far Euphrates blue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of the peoples thou wast noble queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till in thy streets the Goth and Hun were seen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discrowned by man, deserted by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou sleepest, rocked in lonely misery!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer now upon thy swelling tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pine-forest-like, thy myriad galleys ride!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For where the brass-beaked ships were wont to float,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weary shepherd pipes his mournful note;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the white sheep are free to come and go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Adria’s purple waters used to flow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O fair! O sad! O Queen uncomforted!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In ruined loveliness thou liest dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone of all thy sisters; for at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Italia’s royal warrior hath passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rome’s lordliest entrance, and hath worn his crown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the high temples of the Eternal Town!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Palatine hath welcomed back her king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with his name the seven mountains ring!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">And Naples hath outlived her dream of pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mocks her tyrant! Venice lives again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New risen from the waters! and the cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Light and Truth, of Love and Liberty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is heard in lordly Genoa, and where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The marble spires of Milan wound the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rings from the Alps to the Sicilian shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Dante’s dream is now a dream no more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">But thou, Ravenna, better loved than all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy ruined palaces are but a pall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hides thy fallen greatness! and thy name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burns like a grey and flickering candle-flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the noonday splendour of the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of new Italia! for the night is done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The night of dark oppression, and the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hath dawned in passionate splendour: far away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Austrian hounds are hunted from the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond those ice-crowned citadels which stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Girdling the plain of royal Lombardy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the far West unto the Eastern sea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">I know, indeed, that sons of thine have died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Lissa’s waters, by the mountain-side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Aspromonte, on Novara’s plain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor have thy children died for thee in vain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet, methinks, thou hast not drunk this wine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From grapes new-crushed of Liberty divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou hast not followed that immortal Star</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which leads the people forth to deeds of war.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weary of life, thou liest in silent sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As one who marks the lengthening shadows creep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Careless of all the hurrying hours that run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mourning some day of glory, for the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Freedom hath not shewn to thee his face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou hast caught no flambeau in the race.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Yet wake not from thy slumbers⁠—rest thee well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amidst thy fields of amber asphodel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy lily-sprinkled meadows⁠—rest thee there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To mock all human greatness: who would dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To vent the paltry sorrows of his life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before thy ruins, or to praise the strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of kings’ ambition, and the barren pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of warring nations! wert not thou the Bride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the wild Lord of Adria’s stormy sea!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Queen of double Empires! and to thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were not the nations given as thy prey!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now⁠—thy gates lie open night and day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grass grows green on every tower and hall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ghastly fig hath cleft thy bastioned wall;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And where thy mailèd warriors stood at rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The midnight owl hath made her secret nest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O fallen! fallen! from thy high estate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O city trammelled in the toils of Fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doth nought remain of all thy glorious days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a dull shield, a crown of withered bays!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Yet who beneath this night of wars and fears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From tranquil tower can watch the coming years;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who can foretell what joys the day shall bring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or why before the dawn the linnets sing?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou, even thou, mayst wake, as wakes the rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To crimson splendour from its grave of snows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the rich corn-fields rise to red and gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From these brown lands, now stiff with Winter’s cold;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As from the storm-rack comes a perfect star!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O much-loved city! I have wandered far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the wave-circled islands of my home;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have seen the gloomy mystery of the Dome</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rise slowly from the drear Campagna’s way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clothed in the royal purple of the day:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I from the city of the violet crown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have watched the sun by Corinth’s hill go down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And marked the “myriad laughter” of the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From starlit hills of flower-starred Arcady;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet back to thee returns my perfect love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to its forest-nest the evening dove.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O poet’s city! one who scarce has seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some twenty summers cast their doublets green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Autumn’s livery, would seek in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wake his lyre to sing a louder strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or tell thy days of glory;⁠—poor indeed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the low murmur of the shepherd’s reed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the loud clarion’s blast should shake the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flame across the heavens! and to try</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such lofty themes were folly: yet I know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That never felt my heart a nobler glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than when I woke the silence of thy street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With clamorous trampling of my horse’s feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw the city which now I try to sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After long days of weary travelling.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="ravenna-7">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Adieu, Ravenna! but a year ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stood and watched the crimson sunset glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the lone chapel on thy marshy plain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sky was as a shield that caught the stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of blood and battle from the dying sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the west the circling clouds had spun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A royal robe, which some great God might wear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While into ocean-seas of purple air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank the gold galley of the Lord of Light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Yet here the gentle stillness of the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brings back the swelling tide of memory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wakes again my passionate love for thee:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now is the Spring of Love, yet soon will come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On meadow and tree the Summer’s lordly bloom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And soon the grass with brighter flowers will blow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And send up lilies for some boy to mow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then before long the Summer’s conqueror,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rich Autumn-time, the season’s usurer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will lend his hoarded gold to all the trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And see it scattered by the spendthrift breeze;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And after that the Winter cold and drear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So runs the perfect cycle of the year.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so from youth to manhood do we go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fall to weary days and locks of snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love only knows no winter; never dies:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor cares for frowning storms or leaden skies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mine for thee shall never pass away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though my weak lips may falter in my lay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Adieu! Adieu! yon silent evening star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The night’s ambassador, doth gleam afar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bid the shepherd bring his flocks to fold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perchance before our inland seas of gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are garnered by the reapers into sheaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perchance before I see the Autumn leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I may behold thy city; and lay down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Low at thy feet the poet’s laurel crown.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Adieu! Adieu! yon silver lamp, the moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which turns our midnight into perfect noon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doth surely light thy towers, guarding well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Dante sleeps, where Byron loved to dwell.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
