<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Sen Artysty</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="sen-artysty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sen Artysty</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Or, The Artist’s Dream</p>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">From the Polish of Madame Helena Modjeska</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>I too have had my dreams: ay, indeed known</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The crowded visions of a fiery youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which haunt me still.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span class="i6">Methought that once I lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within some garden close, what time the Spring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breaks like a bird from Winter, and the sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is sapphire-vaulted. The pure air was soft,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the deep grass I lay on soft as air.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The strange and secret life of the young trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swelled in the green and tender bark, or burst</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To buds of sheathèd emerald; violets</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peered from their nooks of hiding, half afraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of their own loveliness; the vermeil rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Opened its heart, and the bright star-flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shone like a star of morning. Butterflies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In painted liveries of brown and gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Took the shy bluebells as their pavilions</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And seats of pleasaunce; overhead a bird</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Made snow of all the blossoms as it flew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To charm the woods with singing: the whole world</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="line-break">
					<span>Seemed waking to delight!</span>
					<span>And yet⁠—and yet⁠—</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My soul was filled with leaden heaviness:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I had no joy in Nature; what to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ambition’s slave, was crimson-stainèd rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or the gold-sceptred crocus? The bright bird</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sang out of tune for me, and the sweet flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seemed but a pageant, and an unreal show</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That mocked my heart; for, like the fabled snake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That stings itself to anguish, so I lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="line-break">
					<span>Self-tortured, self-tormented.</span>
					<span>The day crept</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unheeded on the dial, till the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dropt, purple-sailed, into the gorgeous East,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When, from the fiery heart of that great orb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Came One whose shape of beauty far outshone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The most bright vision of this common earth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Girt was she in a robe more white than flame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or furnace-heated brass; upon her head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She bare a laurel crown, and, like a star</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That falls from the high heaven suddenly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="line-break">
					<span>Passed to my side.</span>
					<span>Then kneeling low, I cried</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“O much-desired! O long-waited for!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Immortal Glory! Great world-conqueror!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, let me not die crownless; once, at least,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let thine imperial laurels bind my brows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ignoble else. Once let the clarion note</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And trump of loud ambition sound my name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="line-break">
					<span>And for the rest I care not.”</span>
					<span>Then to me,</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In gentle voice, the angel made reply:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Child, ignorant of the true happiness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor knowing life’s best wisdom, thou wert made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For light and love and laughter, not to waste</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy youth in shooting arrows at the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or nurturing that ambition in thy soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose deadly poison will infect thy heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Marring all joy and gladness! Tarry here</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the sweet confines of this garden-close</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose level meads and glades delectable</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Invite for pleasure; the wild bird that wakes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These silent dells with sudden melody</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall be thy playmate; and each flower that blows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall twine itself unbidden in thy hair⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Garland more meet for thee than the dread weight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="line-break">
					<span>Of Glory’s laurel wreath.”</span>
					<span>“Ah! fruitless gifts,”</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cried, unheeding of her prudent word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Are all such mortal flowers, whose brief lives</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are bounded by the dawn and setting sun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The anger of the noon can wound the rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the rain rob the crocus of its gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But thine immortal coronal of Fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy crown of deathless laurel, this alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Age cannot harm, nor winter’s icy tooth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pierce to its hurt, nor common things profane.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No answer made the angel, but her face</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="line-break">
					<span>Dimmed with the mists of pity.</span>
					<span>Then methought</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That from mine eyes, wherein ambition’s torch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Burned with its latest and most ardent flame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flashed forth two level beams of straitened light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath whose fulgent fires the laurel crown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Twisted and curled, as when the Sirian star</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Withers the ripening corn, and one pale leaf</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fell on my brow; and I leapt up and felt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mighty pulse of Fame, and heard far off</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sound of many nations praising me!</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>One fiery-coloured moment of great life!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then⁠—how barren was the nations’ praise!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How vain the trump of Glory! Bitter thorns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were in that laurel leaf, whose toothèd barbs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Burned and bit deep till fire and red flame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seemed to feed full upon my brain, and make</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="line-break">
					<span>The garden a bare desert.</span>
					<span>With wild hands</span>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I strove to tear it from my bleeding brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all in vain; and with a dolorous cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That paled the lingering stars before their time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I waked at last, and saw the timorous dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peer with grey face into my darkened room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And would have deemed it a mere idle dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But for this restless pain that gnaws my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the red wounds of thorns upon my brow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
