<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>The Sphinx</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-sphinx" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Sphinx</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">To Marcel Schwob, in Friendship and in Admiration</p>
			</header>
			<section id="the-sphinx-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>In a dim corner of my room for longer than my fancy thinks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A beautiful and silent Sphinx has watched me through the shifting gloom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Inviolate and immobile she does not rise she does not stir</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For silver moons are naught to her and naught to her the suns that reel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Red follows grey across the air, the waves of moonlight ebb and flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But with the Dawn she does not go and in the night-time she is there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dawn follows Dawn and Nights grow old and all the while this curious cat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lies couching on the Chinese mat with eyes of satin rimmed with gold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the mat she lies and leers and on the tawny throat of her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flutters the soft and silky fur or ripples to her pointed ears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come forth, my lovely seneschal! so somnolent, so statuesque!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come forth you exquisite grotesque! half woman and half animal!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come forth my lovely languorous Sphinx! and put your head upon my knee!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let me stroke your throat and see your body spotted like the Lynx!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And let me touch those curving claws of yellow ivory and grasp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tail that like a monstrous Asp coils round your heavy velvet paws!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>A thousand weary centuries are thine while I have hardly seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some twenty summers cast their green for Autumn’s gaudy liveries.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But you can read the Hieroglyphs on the great sandstone obelisks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you have talked with Basilisks, and you have looked on Hippogriffs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O tell me, were you standing by when Isis to Osiris knelt?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And did you watch the Egyptian melt her union for Antony</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And drink the jewel-drunken wine and bend her head in mimic awe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the huge proconsul draw the salted tunny from the brine?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And did you mark the Cyprian kiss white Adon on his catafalque?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And did you follow Amenalk, the God of Heliopolis?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And did you talk with Thoth, and did you hear the moon-horned Io weep?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And know the painted kings who sleep beneath the wedge-shaped Pyramid?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>Lift up your large black satin eyes which are like cushions where one sinks!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fawn at my feet, fantastic Sphinx! and sing me all your memories!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing to me of the Jewish maid who wandered with the Holy Child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how you led them through the wild, and how they slept beneath your shade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing to me of that odorous green eve when crouching by the marge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You heard from Adrian’s gilded barge the laughter of Antinous</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And lapped the stream and fed your drouth and watched with hot and hungry stare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ivory body of that rare young slave with his pomegranate mouth!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing to me of the Labyrinth in which the twi-formed bull was stalled!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing to me of the night you crawled across the temple’s granite plinth</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When through the purple corridors the screaming scarlet Ibis flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In terror, and a horrid dew dripped from the moaning Mandragores,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the great torpid crocodile within the tank shed slimy tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tare the jewels from his ears and staggered back into the Nile,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the priests cursed you with shrill psalms as in your claws you seized their snake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crept away with it to slake your passion by the shuddering palms.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>Who were your lovers? who were they who wrestled for you in the dust?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which was the vessel of your Lust? What Leman had you, every day?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Did giant Lizards come and crouch before you on the reedy banks?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did Gryphons with great metal flanks leap on you in your trampled couch?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Did monstrous hippopotami come sidling toward you in the mist?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did gilt-scaled dragons writhe and twist with passion as you passed them by?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And from the brick-built Lycian tomb what horrible Chimera came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fearful heads and fearful flame to breed new wonders from your womb?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>Or had you shameful secret quests and did you harry to your home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some Nereid coiled in amber foam with curious rock crystal breasts?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or did you treading through the froth call to the brown Sidonian</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For tidings of Leviathan, Leviathan or Behemoth?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or did you when the sun was set climb up the cactus-covered slope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To meet your swarthy Ethiop whose body was of polished jet?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or did you while the earthen skiffs dropped down the grey Nilotic flats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At twilight and the flickering bats flew round the temple’s triple glyphs</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Steal to the border of the bar and swim across the silent lake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And slink into the vault and make the Pyramid your lúpanar</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Till from each black sarcophagus rose up the painted swathèd dead?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or did you lure unto your bed the ivory-horned Tragelaphos?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or did you love the god of flies who plagued the Hebrews and was splashed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With wine unto the waist? or Pasht, who had green beryls for her eyes?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or that young god, the Tyrian, who was more amorous than the dove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Ashtaroth? or did you love the god of the Assyrian</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whose wings, like strange transparent talc, rose high above his hawk-faced head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Painted with silver and with red and ribbed with rods of Oreichalch?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or did huge Apis from his car leap down and lay before your feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Big blossoms of the honey-sweet and honey-coloured nenuphar?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>How subtle-secret is your smile! Did you love none then? Nay, I know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great Ammon was your bedfellow! He lay with you beside the Nile!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The river-horses in the slime trumpeted when they saw him come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Odorous with Syrian galbanum and smeared with spikenard and with thyme.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He came along the river bank like some tall galley argent-sailed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He strode across the waters, mailed in beauty, and the waters sank.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He strode across the desert sand: he reached the valley where you lay:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He waited till the dawn of day: then touched your black breasts with his hand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You kissed his mouth with mouths of flame: you made the hornèd god your own:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You stood behind him on his throne: you called him by his secret name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You whispered monstrous oracles into the caverns of his ears:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With blood of goats and blood of steers you taught him monstrous miracles.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>White Ammon was your bedfellow! Your chamber was the steaming Nile!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with your curved archaic smile you watched his passion come and go.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-7" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>With Syrian oils his brows were bright: and wide-spread as a tent at noon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His marble limbs made pale the moon and lent the day a larger light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His long hair was nine cubits’ span and coloured like that yellow gem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which hidden in their garment’s hem the merchants bring from Kurdistan.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His face was as the must that lies upon a vat of new-made wine:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The seas could not insapphirine the perfect azure of his eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His thick soft throat was white as milk and threaded with thin veins of blue:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And curious pearls like frozen dew were broidered on his flowing silk.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-8" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>On pearl and porphyry pedestalled he was too bright to look upon:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For on his ivory breast there shone the wondrous ocean-emerald,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That mystic moonlit jewel which some diver of the Colchian caves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had found beneath the blackening waves and carried to the Colchian witch.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Before his gilded galiot ran naked vine-wreathed corybants,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lines of swaying elephants knelt down to draw his chariot,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And lines of swarthy Nubians bare up his litter as he rode</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down the great granite-paven road between the nodding peacock-fans.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The merchants brought him steatite from Sidon in their painted ships:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The meanest cup that touched his lips was fashioned from a chrysolite.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The merchants brought him cedar chests of rich apparel bound with cords:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His train was borne by Memphian lords: young kings were glad to be his guests.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ten hundred shaven priests did bow to Ammon’s altar day and night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ten hundred lamps did wave their light through Ammon’s carven house⁠—and now</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Foul snake and speckled adder with their young ones crawl from stone to stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ruined is the house and prone the great rose-marble monolith!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wild ass or trotting jackal comes and couches in the mouldering gates:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wild satyrs call unto their mates across the fallen fluted drums.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And on the summit of the pile the blue-faced ape of Horus sits</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gibbers while the fig-tree splits the pillars of the peristyle</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-9" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>The god is scattered here and there: deep hidden in the windy sand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw his giant granite hand still clenched in impotent despair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And many a wandering caravan of stately Negroes silken-shawled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crossing the desert, halts appalled before the neck that none can span.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And many a bearded Bedouin draws back his yellow-striped burnous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To gaze upon the Titan thews of him who was thy paladin.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-10" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>Go, seek his fragments on the moor and wash them in the evening dew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from their pieces make anew thy mutilated paramour!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Go, seek them where they lie alone and from their broken pieces make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy bruisèd bedfellow! And wake mad passions in the senseless stone!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Charm his dull ear with Syrian hymns! he loved your body! oh, be kind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pour spikenard on his hair, and wind soft rolls of linen round his limbs!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wind round his head the figured coins! stain with red fruits those pallid lips!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weave purple for his shrunken hips! and purple for his barren loins!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-11" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>Away to Egypt! Have no fear. Only one God has ever died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only one God has let His side be wounded by a soldier’s spear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But these, thy lovers, are not dead. Still by the hundred-cubit gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dog-faced Anubis sits in state with lotus-lilies for thy head.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Still from his chair of porphyry gaunt Memnon strains his lidless eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the empty land, and cries each yellow morning unto thee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And Nilus with his broken horn lies in his black and oozy bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And till thy coming will not spread his waters on the withering corn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your lovers are not dead, I know. They will rise up and hear your voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And clash their cymbals and rejoice and run to kiss your mouth! And so,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Set wings upon your argosies! Set horses to your ebon car!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back to your Nile! Or if you are grown sick of dead divinities</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Follow some roving lion’s spoor across the copper-coloured plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reach out and hale him by the mane and bid him be your paramour!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Couch by his side upon the grass and set your white teeth in his throat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when you hear his dying note lash your long flanks of polished brass</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And take a tiger for your mate, whose amber sides are flecked with black,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ride upon his gilded back in triumph through the Theban gate,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And toy with him in amorous jests, and when he turns, and snarls, and gnaws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O smite him with your jasper claws! and bruise him with your agate breasts!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-12" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>Why are you tarrying? Get hence! I weary of your sullen ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I weary of your steadfast gaze, your somnolent magnificence.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your horrible and heavy breath makes the light flicker in the lamp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on my brow I feel the damp and dreadful dews of night and death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your eyes are like fantastic moons that shiver in some stagnant lake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your tongue is like a scarlet snake that dances to fantastic tunes,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your pulse makes poisonous melodies, and your black throat is like the hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Left by some torch or burning coal on Saracenic tapestries.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Away! The sulphur-coloured stars are hurrying through the Western gate!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away! Or it may be too late to climb their silent silver cars!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See, the dawn shivers round the grey gilt-dialled towers, and the rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Streams down each diamonded pane and blurs with tears the wannish day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What snake-tressed fury fresh from Hell, with uncouth gestures and unclean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stole from the poppy-drowsy queen and led you to a student’s cell?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-sphinx-13" epub:type="chapter">
				<p>
					<span>What songless tongueless ghost of sin crept through the curtains of the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw my taper burning bright, and knocked, and bade you enter in?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are there not others more accursed, whiter with leprosies than I?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are Abana and Pharphar dry that you come here to slake your thirst?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Get hence, you loathsome mystery! Hideous animal, get hence!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You wake in me each bestial sense, you make me what I would not be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You make my creed a barren sham, you wake foul dreams of sensual life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Atys with his blood-stained knife were better than the thing I am.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>False Sphinx! False Sphinx! By reedy Styx old Charon, leaning on his oar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waits for my coin. Go thou before, and leave me to my crucifix,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whose pallid burden, sick with pain, watches the world with wearied eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And weeps for every soul that dies, and weeps for every soul in vain.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
