<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>The Ballad of Reading Gaol</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-ballad-of-reading-gaol" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Ballad of Reading Gaol</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">In Memoriam C. T. W., Sometime Trooper of the Royal Horse Guards, Obiit H.M. Prison, Reading, Berkshire, July 7, 1896</p>
			</header>
			<section id="the-ballad-of-reading-gaol-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He did not wear his scarlet coat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For blood and wine are red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blood and wine were on his hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When they found him with the dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poor dead woman whom he loved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And murdered in her bed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He walked amongst the Trial Men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In a suit of shabby grey;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cricket cap was on his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his step seemed light and gay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I never saw a man who looked</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So wistfully at the day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I never saw a man who looked</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With such a wistful eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon that little tent of blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which prisoners call the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at every drifting cloud that went</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With sails of silver by.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I walked, with other souls in pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within another ring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was wondering if the man had done</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A great or little thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When a voice behind me whispered low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“<i>That fellow’s got to swing.</i>”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Christ! the very prison walls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suddenly seemed to reel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sky above my head became</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a casque of scorching steel;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, though I was a soul in pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My pain I could not feel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I only knew what hunted thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Quickened his step, and why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looked upon the garish day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With such a wistful eye;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man had killed the thing he loved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And so he had to die.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>Yet each man kills the thing he loves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By each let this be heard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some do it with a bitter look,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some with a flattering word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coward does it with a kiss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The brave man with a sword!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some kill their love when they are young,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And some when they are old;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some strangle with the hands of Lust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some with the hands of Gold:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The kindest use a knife, because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dead so soon grow cold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some love too little, some too long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some sell, and others buy;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some do the deed with many tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And some without a sigh:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For each man kills the thing he loves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet each man does not die.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>He does not die a death of shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On a day of dark disgrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor have a noose about his neck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor a cloth upon his face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor drop feet foremost through the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into an empty space.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He does not sit with silent men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who watch him night and day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who watch him when he tries to weep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And when he tries to pray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who watch him lest himself should rob</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The prison of its prey.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He does not wake at dawn to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dread figures throng his room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shivering Chaplain robed in white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Sheriff stern with gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Governor all in shiny black,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the yellow face of Doom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He does not rise in piteous haste</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To put on convict-clothes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While some coarse-mouthed Doctor gloats, and notes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each new and nerve-twitched pose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fingering a watch whose little ticks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are like horrible hammer-blows.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He does not know that sickening thirst</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That sands one’s throat, before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hangman with his gardener’s gloves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Slips through the padded door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And binds one with three leathern thongs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That the throat may thirst no more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He does not bend his head to hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Burial Office read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor, while the terror of his soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tells him he is not dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cross his own coffin, as he moves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the hideous shed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He does not stare upon the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through a little roof of glass:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He does not pray with lips of clay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For his agony to pass;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor feel upon his shuddering cheek</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The kiss of Caiaphas.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-ballad-of-reading-gaol-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Six weeks our guardsman walked the yard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the suit of shabby grey:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His cricket cap was on his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his step seemed light and gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I never saw a man who looked</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So wistfully at the day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I never saw a man who looked</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With such a wistful eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon that little tent of blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which prisoners call the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at every wandering cloud that trailed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its ravelled fleeces by.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He did not wring his hands, as do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Those witless men who dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To try to rear the changeling Hope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the cave of black Despair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He only looked upon the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And drank the morning air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He did not wring his hands nor weep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor did he peek or pine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he drank the air as though it held</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some healthful anodyne;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With open mouth he drank the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As though it had been wine!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And I and all the souls in pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who tramped the other ring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgot if we ourselves had done</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A great or little thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And watched with gaze of dull amaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The man who had to swing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And strange it was to see him pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a step so light and gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strange it was to see him look</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So wistfully at the day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strange it was to think that he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had such a debt to pay.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>For oak and elm have pleasant leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That in the springtime shoot:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But grim to see is the gallows-tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With its adder-bitten root,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, green or dry, a man must die</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Before it bears its fruit!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The loftiest place is that seat of grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For which all worldlings try:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But who would stand in hempen band</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon a scaffold high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through a murderer’s collar take</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His last look at the sky?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is sweet to dance to violins</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When Love and Life are fair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dance to flutes, to dance to lutes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is delicate and rare:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it is not sweet with nimble feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To dance upon the air!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So with curious eyes and sick surmise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We watched him day by day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wondered if each one of us</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would end the self-same way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For none can tell to what red Hell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His sightless soul may stray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At last the dead man walked no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Amongst the Trial Men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I knew that he was standing up</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the black dock’s dreadful pen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that never would I see his face</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In God’s sweet world again.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like two doomed ships that pass in storm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We had crossed each other’s way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But we made no sign, we said no word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We had no word to say;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For we did not meet in the holy night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But in the shameful day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A prison wall was round us both,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Two outcast men we were:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world had thrust us from its heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And God from out His care:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the iron gin that waits for Sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had caught us in its snare.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-ballad-of-reading-gaol-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In Debtors’ Yard the stones are hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the dripping wall is high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So it was there he took the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beneath the leaden sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by each side a Warder walked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For fear the man might die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or else he sat with those who watched</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His anguish night and day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who watched him when he rose to weep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And when he crouched to pray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who watched him lest himself should rob</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their scaffold of its prey.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Governor was strong upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Regulations Act:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Doctor said that Death was but</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A scientific fact:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And twice a day the Chaplain called,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And left a little tract.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And twice a day he smoked his pipe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And drank his quart of beer:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His soul was resolute, and held</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No hiding-place for fear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He often said that he was glad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The hangman’s hands were near.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But why he said so strange a thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No Warder dared to ask:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he to whom a watcher’s doom</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is given as his task,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must set a lock upon his lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And make his face a mask.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or else he might be moved, and try</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To comfort or console:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what should Human Pity do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pent up in Murderers’ Hole?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What word of grace in such a place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Could help a brother’s soul?</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>With slouch and swing around the ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We trod the Fools’ Parade!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We did not care: we knew we were</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Devil’s Own Brigade:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shaven head and feet of lead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Make a merry masquerade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We tore the tarry rope to shreds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With blunt and bleeding nails;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We rubbed the doors, and scrubbed the floors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cleaned the shining rails:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, rank by rank, we soaped the plank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And clattered with the pails.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We sewed the sacks, we broke the stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We turned the dusty drill:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We banged the tins, and bawled the hymns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sweated on the mill:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But in the heart of every man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Terror was lying still.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So still it lay that every day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crawled like a weed-clogged wave:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we forgot the bitter lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That waits for fool and knave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till once, as we tramped in from work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We passed an open grave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With yawning mouth the yellow hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gaped for a living thing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The very mud cried out for blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the thirsty asphalte ring:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we knew that ere one dawn grew fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some prisoner had to swing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Right in we went, with soul intent</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On Death and Dread and Doom:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hangman, with his little bag,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Went shuffling through the gloom:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each man trembled as he crept</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into his numbered tomb.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>That night the empty corridors</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were full of forms of Fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And up and down the iron town</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stole feet we could not hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through the bars that hide the stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">White faces seemed to peer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He lay as one who lies and dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In a pleasant meadow-land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The watchers watched him as he slept,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And could not understand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How one could sleep so sweet a sleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a hangman close at hand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But there is no sleep when men must weep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who never yet have wept:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So we⁠—the fool, the fraud, the knave⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That endless vigil kept,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through each brain on hands of pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Another’s terror crept.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas! it is a fearful thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To feel another’s guilt!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For, right within, the sword of Sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pierced to its poisoned hilt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as molten lead were the tears we shed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the blood we had not spilt.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Warders with their shoes of felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crept by each padlocked door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And peeped and saw, with eyes of awe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grey figures on the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wondered why men knelt to pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who never prayed before.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All through the night we knelt and prayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mad mourners of a corse!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The troubled plumes of midnight were</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The plumes upon a hearse:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bitter wine upon a sponge</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was the savour of Remorse.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>The grey cock crew, the red cock crew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But never came the day:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crooked shapes of Terror crouched,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the corners where we lay:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each evil sprite that walks by night</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Before us seemed to play.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They glided past, they glided fast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like travellers through a mist:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They mocked the moon in a rigadoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of delicate turn and twist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with formal pace and loathsome grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The phantoms kept their tryst.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With mop and mow, we saw them go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Slim shadows hand in hand:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About, about, in ghostly rout</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They trod a saraband:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the damned grotesques made arabesques,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like the wind upon the sand!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With the pirouettes of marionettes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They tripped on pointed tread:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But with flutes of Fear they filled the ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As their grisly masque they led,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loud they sang, and long they sang,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For they sang to wake the dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“<i>Oho!</i>” <i>they cried</i>, “<i>The world is wide</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><i>But fettered limbs go lame</i>!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>And once</i>, <i>or twice</i>, <i>to throw the dice</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><i>Is a gentlemanly game</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<i>But he does not win who plays with Sin</i>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><i>In the secret House of Shame</i>.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No things of air these antics were,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That frolicked with such glee:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To men whose lives were held in gyves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And whose feet might not go free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah! wounds of Christ! they were living things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Most terrible to see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Around, around, they waltzed and wound;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some wheeled in smirking pairs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the mincing step of a demirep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some sidled up the stairs:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with subtle sneer, and fawning leer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each helped us at our prayers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The morning wind began to moan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But still the night went on:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through its giant loom the web of gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crept till each thread was spun:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, as we prayed, we grew afraid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the Justice of the Sun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The moaning wind went wandering round</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The weeping prison-wall:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till like a wheel of turning steel</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We felt the minutes crawl:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O moaning wind! what had we done</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To have such a seneschal?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At last I saw the shadowed bars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a lattice wrought in lead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Move right across the whitewashed wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That faced my three-plank bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I knew that somewhere in the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">God’s dreadful dawn was red.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At six o’clock we cleaned our cells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At seven all was still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the sough and swing of a mighty wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The prison seemed to fill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the Lord of Death with icy breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had entered in to kill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He did not pass in purple pomp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor ride a moon-white steed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three yards of cord and a sliding board</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are all the gallows’ need:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So with rope of shame the Herald came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To do the secret deed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We were as men who through a fen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of filthy darkness grope:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We did not dare to breathe a prayer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or to give our anguish scope:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something was dead in each of us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And what was dead was Hope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For Man’s grim Justice goes its way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And will not swerve aside:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It slays the weak, it slays the strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It has a deadly stride:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With iron heel it slays the strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The monstrous parricide!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We waited for the stroke of eight:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each tongue was thick with thirst:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the stroke of eight is the stroke of Fate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That makes a man accursed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Fate will use a running noose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the best man and the worst.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We had no other thing to do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save to wait for the sign to come:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, like things of stone in a valley lone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Quiet we sat and dumb:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But each man’s heart beat thick and quick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a madman on a drum!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With sudden shock the prison-clock</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Smote on the shivering air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from all the gaol rose up a wail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of impotent despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the sound that frightened marshes hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From some leper in his lair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And as one sees most fearful things</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the crystal of a dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We saw the greasy hempen rope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hooked to the blackened beam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heard the prayer the hangman’s snare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Strangled into a scream.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And all the woe that moved him so</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That he gave that bitter cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wild regrets, and the bloody sweats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">None knew so well as I:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he who lives more lives than one</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">More deaths than one must die.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-ballad-of-reading-gaol-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There is no chapel on the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On which they hang a man:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Chaplain’s heart is far too sick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or his face is far too wan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or there is that written in his eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which none should look upon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So they kept us close till nigh on noon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And then they rang the bell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Warders with their jingling keys</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Opened each listening cell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And down the iron stair we tramped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each from his separate Hell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out into God’s sweet air we went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But not in wonted way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this man’s face was white with fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And that man’s face was grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I never saw sad men who looked</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So wistfully at the day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I never saw sad men who looked</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With such a wistful eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon that little tent of blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We prisoners called the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at every careless cloud that passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In happy freedom by.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But there were those amongst us all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who walked with downcast head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knew that, had each got his due,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They should have died instead:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had but killed a thing that lived,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whilst they had killed the dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For he who sins a second time</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wakes a dead soul to pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And draws it from its spotted shroud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And makes it bleed again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And makes it bleed great gouts of blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And makes it bleed in vain!</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>Like ape or clown, in monstrous garb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With crooked arrows starred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silently we went round and round</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The slippery asphalte yard;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silently we went round and round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And no man spoke a word.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Silently we went round and round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And through each hollow mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Memory of dreadful things</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rushed like a dreadful wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Horror stalked before each man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Terror crept behind.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>The Warders strutted up and down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And kept their herd of brutes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their uniforms were spick and span,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And they wore their Sunday suits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But we knew the work they had been at,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the quicklime on their boots.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For where a grave had opened wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There was no grave at all:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only a stretch of mud and sand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the hideous prison-wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a little heap of burning lime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That the man should have his pall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For he has a pall, this wretched man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Such as few men can claim:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep down below a prison-yard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Naked for greater shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lies, with fetters on each foot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wrapt in a sheet of flame!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And all the while the burning lime</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Eats flesh and bone away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It eats the brittle bone by night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the soft flesh by day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It eats the flesh and bone by turns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But it eats the heart alway.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>For three long years they will not sow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or root or seedling there:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For three long years the unblessed spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will sterile be and bare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And look upon the wondering sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With unreproachful stare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They think a murderer’s heart would taint</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each simple seed they sow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is not true! God’s kindly earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is kindlier than men know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the red rose would but blow more red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The white rose whiter blow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out of his mouth a red, red rose!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Out of his heart a white!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For who can say by what strange way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Christ brings His will to light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since the barren staff the pilgrim bore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bloomed in the great Pope’s sight?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But neither milk-white rose nor red</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May bloom in prison-air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shard, the pebble, and the flint,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are what they give us there:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For flowers have been known to heal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A common man’s despair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So never will wine-red rose or white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Petal by petal, fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On that stretch of mud and sand that lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the hideous prison-wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tell the men who tramp the yard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That God’s Son died for all.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>Yet though the hideous prison-wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still hems him round and round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a spirit may not walk by night</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That is with fetters bound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a spirit may but weep that lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In such unholy ground,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He is at peace⁠—this wretched man⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At peace, or will be soon:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is no thing to make him mad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor does Terror walk at noon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the lampless Earth in which he lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has neither Sun nor Moon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They hanged him as a beast is hanged:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They did not even toll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A requiem that might have brought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rest to his startled soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But hurriedly they took him out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hid him in a hole.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They stripped him of his canvas clothes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gave him to the flies:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They mocked the swollen purple throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the stark and staring eyes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with laughter loud they heaped the shroud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In which their convict lies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Chaplain would not kneel to pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By his dishonoured grave:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor mark it with that blessed Cross</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Christ for sinners gave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because the man was one of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whom Christ came down to save.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet all is well; he has but passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To Life’s appointed bourne:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And alien tears will fill for him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pity’s long-broken urn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For his mourners will be outcast men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And outcasts always mourn</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-ballad-of-reading-gaol-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I know not whether Laws be right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or whether Laws be wrong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All that we know who lie in gaol</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is that the wall is strong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that each day is like a year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A year whose days are long.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But this I know, that every Law</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That men have made for Man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since first Man took his brother’s life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the sad world began,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But straws the wheat and saves the chaff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a most evil fan.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This too I know⁠—and wise it were</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If each could know the same⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That every prison that men build</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is built with bricks of shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bound with bars lest Christ should see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How men their brothers maim.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With bars they blur the gracious moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And blind the goodly sun:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they do well to hide their Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For in it things are done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Son of God nor son of Man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ever should look upon!</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>The vilest deeds like poison weeds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bloom well in prison-air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is only what is good in Man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That wastes and withers there:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale Anguish keeps the heavy gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the Warder is Despair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For they starve the little frightened child</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till it weeps both night and day:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they scourge the weak, and flog the fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gibe the old and grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some grow mad, and all grow bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And none a word may say.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Each narrow cell in which we dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is a foul and dark latrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fetid breath of living Death</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Chokes up each grated screen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all, but Lust, is turned to dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Humanity’s machine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The brackish water that we drink</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Creeps with a loathsome slime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the bitter bread they weigh in scales</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is full of chalk and lime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Sleep will not lie down, but walks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wild-eyed, and cries to Time.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>But though lean Hunger and green Thirst</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like asp with adder fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have little care of prison fare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For what chills and kills outright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is that every stone one lifts by day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Becomes one’s heart by night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With midnight always in one’s heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And twilight in one’s cell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We turn the crank, or tear the rope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each in his separate Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the silence is more awful far</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than the sound of a brazen bell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And never a human voice comes near</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To speak a gentle word:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the eye that watches through the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is pitiless and hard:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by all forgot, we rot and rot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With soul and body marred.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And thus we rust Life’s iron chain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Degraded and alone:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some men curse, and some men weep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And some men make no moan:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But God’s eternal Laws are kind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And break the heart of stone.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>And every human heart that breaks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In prison-cell or yard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is as that broken box that gave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its treasure to the Lord,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And filled the unclean leper’s house</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the scent of costliest nard.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! happy they whose hearts can break</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And peace of pardon win!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How else may man make straight his plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cleanse his soul from Sin?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How else but through a broken heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May Lord Christ enter in?</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>And he of the swollen purple throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the stark and staring eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waits for the holy hands that took</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Thief to Paradise;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a broken and a contrite heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Lord will not despise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The man in red who reads the Law</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gave him three weeks of life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three little weeks in which to heal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His soul of his soul’s strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cleanse from every blot of blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The hand that held the knife.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And with tears of blood he cleansed the hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The hand that held the steel:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For only blood can wipe out blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And only tears can heal:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the crimson stain that was of Cain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Became Christ’s snow-white seal.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-ballad-of-reading-gaol-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In Reading gaol by Reading town</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There is a pit of shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in it lies a wretched man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Eaten by teeth of flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a burning winding-sheet he lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his grave has got no name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And there, till Christ call forth the dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In silence let him lie:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No need to waste the foolish tear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or heave the windy sigh:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man had killed the thing he loved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And so he had to die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And all men kill the thing they love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By all let this be heard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some do it with a bitter look,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some with a flattering word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coward does it with a kiss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The brave man with a sword!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>C.3.3.</p>
				</footer>
			</section>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
